

1Introduction

 Report GitHub Issue
 ×

 Title:

Content selection saved. Describe the issue below:

 Description:

 Submit without GitHub
 Submit in GitHub

 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit!
 Learn more
 ×

 Back to arXiv

 Why HTML?

 Report Issue

 Back to Abstract

 Download PDF

Abstract

1 Introduction

2 AIOpsLab

2.1 Problem Definition

2.2 Orchestrator

2.2.1 Agent Cloud Interface

2.2.2 Session Interface

2.2.3 Other Interfaces

2.3 Cloud Services

2.4 Task-oriented Fault Library

2.4.1 Task Taxonomy

2.4.2 Symptomatic Faults

2.4.3 Functional Faults

2.5 Observability

3 Evaluation

3.1 Evaluation Setup

3.2 Metrics

3.3 Problem Pool of AIOpsLab Benchmark

3.4 Performance Results

3.5 Influence of the Step Limit

3.6 Agent Behavior: The Good, the Bad and the Gaps

3.6.1 Wasting steps on unnecessary actions

3.6.2 Overloaded information when consuming data

3.6.3 Invalid API usage

3.6.4 False positive detection issues

4 Discussion

5 Related Work

6 Conclusion

References

 License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0

arXiv:2501.06706v1 [cs.AI] 12 Jan 2025

marginparsep has been altered.
topmargin has been altered.
marginparwidth has been altered.
marginparpush has been altered.

The page layout violates the ICML style.

Please do not change the page layout, or include packages like geometry,
savetrees, or fullpage, which change it for you.

We’re not able to reliably undo arbitrary changes to the style. Please remove
the offending package(s), or layout-changing commands and try again.

AIOpsLab: A Holistic Framework to Evaluate AI Agents for Enabling Autonomous Clouds

Yinfang Chen 1  
Manish Shetty 2  
Gagan Somashekar 3  
Minghua Ma 3  
Yogesh Simmhan 4  
Jonathan Mace 3  
Chetan Bansal 3  
Rujia Wang 3  
Saravan Rajmohan 3 
††footnotetext: 1UIUC, Champaign, USA
2UC Berkeley, Berkeley, USA
3Microsoft, Redmond, USA
4IISc, Bengaluru, India.
Correspondence to: Minghua Ma <minghuama@microsoft.com>.

Abstract

AI for IT Operations (AIOps) aims to automate complex operational tasks,
such as fault localization and root cause analysis,
to reduce human workload and minimize customer impact.
While traditional DevOps tools and AIOps algorithms
often focus on addressing isolated operational tasks,
recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs)
and AI agents are revolutionizing AIOps
by enabling end-to-end and multitask automation.
This paper envisions a future where AI agents autonomously
manage operational tasks throughout the entire incident lifecycle,
leading to self-healing cloud systems, a paradigm we term AgentOps.
Realizing this vision requires a comprehensive framework
to guide the design, development, and evaluation of these agents.
To this end, we present AIOpsLab,
a framework that not only
deploys microservice cloud environments,
injects faults, generates workloads,
and exports telemetry data
but also orchestrates these components
and provides interfaces for interacting with and evaluating agents.
We discuss the key requirements for such a holistic framework
and demonstrate how AIOpsLab
can facilitate the evaluation of next-generation AIOps agents.
Through evaluations of state-of-the-art LLM agents within
the benchmark created by AIOpsLab,
we provide insights into their
capabilities and limitations
in handling complex operational tasks in cloud environments.

1 Introduction

The rapid evolution of IT applications and services
has led enterprises to increasingly depend on hyper-scale,
cloud-based systems.
These systems are often distributed, employing architectures such as microservices and serverless computing, enabling scalability but also adding complexity and introducing new operational challenges.
In such cloud environments, issues can cascade into large-scale outages.
For instance, an Amazon outage can result in losses of $100 million in just one hour Wolfe (2018).

To address the challenges of managing incidents
in such complex infrastructures,
there is a movement towards the adoption of AIOps
(Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations),
within the context of DevOps (Development and Operations).
The ultimate goal of AIOps is to create autonomous self-healing clouds,
where AI-driven approaches can detect, localize,
and mitigate faults with minimal human intervention.
Although such a concept
has existed for over a decade Li et al. (2012); Dai et al. (2009),
the recent advancements of AIOps and Large Language Model (LLM) agents
have brought this vision closer to reality Zhao et al. (2023); He et al. (2022); Ma et al. (2018); Zhang et al. (2018); Ganatra et al. (2023); Somashekar et al. (2024); Zhang et al. (2024a); Chen et al. (2024).
Large Language Model (LLM) agents Mialon et al. (2023); Schick et al. (2024)
integrate external tools
to dynamically interact with their environment Wei et al. (2022a),
enabling them to autonomously manage the entire incident lifecycle, as shown in Figure 1.

To realize this autonomous self-healing cloud vision,
we propose a new paradigm called AgentOps (Agent for Operations).
In this paradigm,
agentic approaches are not limited to isolated operational tasks
but are capable of seamlessly managing multiple,
cross-layer tasks across the entire operational stack.
AgentOps represents an evolution where autonomous agents
can make real-time decisions
and end-to-end actions to ensure system reliability.
This aligns with recent advancements in AI,
as highlighted by a post:

“State-of-the-art AI results are increasingly obtained
by compound systems with multiple components, not just monolithic models …
compound AI systems will likely be the best way to maximize AI results in the future” –
The Shift from Models to Compound AI Systems Zaharia et al. (2024)

AI-driven tools and benchmarks like WebArena Zhou et al. (2023), R2E Jain et al. (2024b), HumanEval Chen et al. (2021), LiveCodeBench Jain et al. (2024a), and SWE-bench Jimenez et al. (2024) have significantly advanced the ‘Dev’ side of DevOps by accelerating software development.
However, progress in AI for ‘Ops’, particularly AgentOps, remains limited,
due to the lack of high-quality benchmarks for diverse, realistic scenarios. Addressing this gap requires
a framework that aids the design,
development, and evaluation of AIOps agents
within an interactive environment,
a key contribution of this paper.

Challenges and contributions. 
Building a holistic benchmark framework that
can allow agents to interact dynamically with the cloud
poses several challenges.
The first challenge is to manage an evaluation flow
that is generally applicable to diverse agents and clouds,
powerful enough to evaluate agents
by complex and realistic operational tasks,
and valuable enough to provide different feedback or observability,
together with extensibility
that make it possible to accommodate
new tasks and agents by the users.
While existing tools address individual components of the AIOps evaluation,
such as observability He et al. (2023); Simonsson et al. (2021),
application suites Gan et al. (2019); Zhou et al. (2021); Sriraman and Wenisch (2018) and
chaos engineering Netflix (2011); ChaosBlade Team (2019); ChaosMesh Authors (2022),
they lack the integration necessary
to support a unified AIOps evaluation.

We present AIOpsLab, a holistic framework that can automatically manage the entire end-to-end evaluation process for AIOps solutions.
This involves deploying services, fault injection, workload generation, orchestrating the agent-cloud interaction, and analyzing results.
Specifically, AIOpsLab features the Agent-Cloud Interface (ACI),
a unified interface that enables agents
to interact with the cloud.
ACI allows agents to communicate, take action,
and receive feedback,
orchestrating these interactions
to detect and resolve issues in dynamic
and interactive environments.

Moreover, a common challenge in operation benchmarks is
the lack of realistic evaluation scenarios,
as existing approaches often rely on static datasets,
such as system metrics Han et al. (2022); Jacob et al. (2020) that are
typically time series data,
or on fixed question-answer format Liu et al. (2023).
Such setups do not capture the dynamic, unpredictable,
and evolving nature of real-world cloud environments,
where workloads and incidents fluctuate over time.
To make matters worse,
recent efforts on AgentOps Wang et al. (2023); Zhang et al. (2024a)
use proprietary services and datasets.
Furthermore, existing AIOps approaches and their benchmarks often
focus only on isolated aspects of the incident lifecycle,
such as anomaly detection Yu et al. (2024b)
or fault localization Sun et al. (2024).
This lacks a cohesive framework to evaluate AIOps agents comprehensively.
Moreover, it limits support for decision-making
that could assist in chaining algorithms
or selecting the most suitable agent for a given operation scenario.

To address these limitations,
we designed a set of evaluation scenarios,
referred to as problems,
which replicates realistic incidents
within the microservice system.
AIOpsLab’s problem pool
is structured around a task-level taxonomy
that categorizes tasks of different problems
across the incident management lifecycle.
Our approach ensures that evaluation scenarios
go beyond simple performance or crash failures
(that cannot be further analyzed or mitigated by the agents),
incorporating fine-grained root causes
to fully assess the diagnostic
and mitigation abilities of AIOps agents.

Implementation. 
We developed AIOpsLab, an innovative framework for building AgentOps benchmarks to evaluate LLM-based AIOps agents. AIOpsLab utilizes two microservice applications from DeathStarBench Gan et al. (2019) as testbeds, along with their workload generators. An extensible fault library, integrated with ChaosMesh ChaosMesh Authors (2022), enables diverse fault injections into the system. A telemetry observer, incorporating Prometheus Prometheus Authors (2024) for metrics, Jaeger Jaeger Authors (2024) for tracing, and Filebeat Elasticsearch (2024b) and Logstash Elasticsearch (2024a) for logging,
supports on-disk storage of telemetry data, facilitating evaluations of both traditional AIOps algorithms and agentic solutions. We also integrate Helm and Kubernetes APIs into the AIOpsLab’s orchestrator implementation.

To demonstrate the application of our framework in evaluating LLM-based agents as the benchmark,
we use AIOpsLab to create 48 problems as evaluation scenarios
covering different types of AIOps tasks,
and register four agents from different types on those problems.
The agent registration is lightweight, with less than a hundred lines of code to implement.
Our evaluation process reveals distinct challenges agents face across tasks.

Summary. This paper makes the following contributions:

• 

We unravel the requirements and challenges of achieving a holistic framework that supports the design, development, and evaluation of autonomous AIOps agents;

• 

We develop a framework, AIOpsLab, which can not only
deploy microservice cloud environments,
inject faults, generate workloads,
and export telemetry data
but also orchestrate these components
and provide agent-cloud interfaces
for interacting with and evaluating agents.

• 

We leverage the AIOpsLab framework
to construct a benchmark suite with 48 problems
across different AIOps tasks in an interactive environment
and evaluate four LLM-based agents.

• 

We provide a detailed analysis of the agents’ performance
and limitations by evaluating them on AIOpsLab.

• 

We will make AIOpsLab publicly available.11
 1

 The link will be provided.

Figure 1: Microservice incident and its management lifecycle.

2 AIOpsLab

Figure 2: Overview of AIOpsLab. The Orchestrator coordinates interactions between various system components and serves as the Agent-Cloud-Interface (ACI).
Agents engage with the Orchestrator to solve tasks, receiving a problem description, instructions, and relevant APIs. The Orchestrator generates diverse problems using the Workload and Fault Generators, injecting these into applications it can deploy.
The deployed service has observability, providing telemetry such as metrics, traces, and logs.
Agents act via the Orchestrator, which executes them and updates the service’s state. The Orchestrator evaluates the final solution using predefined metrics for the task.

In this section, we discuss the
design and implementation of AIOpsLab and its components,
as illustrated in Figure 2.

2.1 Problem Definition

To support a wide range of evaluation scenarios (referred to as problems),
which replicate realistic incidents within the microservice system,
we first formalize an AIOps problem PP as a tuple: P=⟨T,C,S⟩P=\langle T,C,S\rangle, where
TT represents a task, CC represents a context, and SS represents the expected solution (oracle).
The task TT defines the specific AIOps
operation to be performed,
categorized into four types: detection,
localization, (root cause) analysis, and mitigation.
We define these tasks in Table 1.
Each task type is associated with success criteria and evaluation metrics.
For instance, the detection task employs Time-to-Detect (TTD)
to measure the time taken to detect a fault.

The context CC can be further formalized as a tuple:
C=⟨E,I⟩C=\langle E,I\rangle, where EE is the operational environment
in which the problem occurs, and II is the problem information used to describe the problem to the agent.
The operational environment includes the cloud service, the fault model, and the workload model used to generate the problem, which is not shared with the agent.
The problem information comprises of information
such as service descriptions, task descriptions,
and documentation about available APIs
that is directly shared with the agent.
It also subsumes indirect information (including logs, metrics, and traces observed in the operational environment) that is queryable by the agent at runtime.
Finally, SS is the expected outcome of the task,
which is used to evaluate the agent’s performance.
The solution is typically problem and task-specific
and is carefully designed for evaluation.
Note that some problems, e.g., mitigation tasks, can be solved in multiple ways.
In such cases, AIOpsLab evaluates the general state of the entire system,
e.g., check whether all of the services are up and running,
after the problem is resolved,
rather than solely on the targeted resource
where the fault was injected,
because other services or resources
may have been inadvertently affected
during the mitigation process.

Example 2.1.

Consider the problem of localizing a Kubernetes target port misconfiguration in a social network application.
AIOpsLab makes it easy to define this problem in just a few lines by extending the LocalizationTask interface.

⬇

 1

 from aiopslab import LocalizationTask, SocialNetwork

 2

 from aiopslab import Wrk, VirtFaultInjector

 3

 class K8STargetPortMisconf(LocalizationTask):

 4

 def __init__(self):

 5

 self.app = SocialNetwork()

 6

 self.ans = "user-service"

 7

 8

 def start_workload(self):

 9

 wrk = Wrk(rate=100, duration=10)

 10

 wrk.start_workload(url=self.app.frontend_url)

 11

 12

 def inject_fault(self):

 13

 inj = VirtFaultInjector(self.app.ns)

 14

 inj.inject([self.ans], "misconfig_k8s")

 15

 16

 def eval(self, soln, trace, duration):

 17

 res["TTL"] = duration

 18

 res["success"] = is_exact_match(soln, self.ans)

 19

 return res

Here, the task TT is fault localization, and the solution SS is the microservice named “user-service”, which is also the fault injection target.
The context CC includes the social network application,
a misconfiguration fault from AIOpsLab’s fault library,
and a standard workload using the wrk tool.
AIOpsLab provides several such interfaces
for all AIOps tasks (Section 2.4.1)
and allows users to add new problems by extending them.
Once problems are defined,
AIOpsLab can instantiate them and allow agents to interact
with them using an Orchestrator that we describe next.

2.2 Orchestrator

AIOpsLab’s Orchestrator strictly enforces the separation of concerns
between the agent and the service,
using a well-defined central piece,
the Orchestrator.
It provides a robust set of interfaces
that allow seamless integration
and extension of various system components.

2.2.1 Agent Cloud Interface

A key responsibility of the Orchestrator is to provide a well-defined interface for the agent to interact with the cloud environment.
Typically, developers operate clouds and services with various programming (e.g., APIs, CLIs) and user interfaces (incident portals, dashboards, etc.).
However, existing interfaces to the cloud are not well-designed for LLMs and agents. For instance, humans can reliably
ignore irrelevant information, which can prove distracting for agents and hamper performance.

The ACI specifies (1) the set of valid actions available to the agent 7 9,
and (2) how the service’s state is conveyed back to the agent as the observation of its actions 8.

In doing so, the ACI abstracts the cloud environment’s complexity, simplifying the agent’s decision-making process.
The ACI is designed to be intuitive and easy to use, with a concise list of APIs,
each documented to ensure that agents can make meaningful progress towards their objectives.
Some APIs that AIOpsLab provides by default include get_logs (fetch logs),
get_metrics (fetch metrics), get_traces (fetch traces),
and exec_shell (execute shell commands after applying security policy filters).

Example 2.2.

This example illustrates how the ACI is defined in AIOpsLab as APIs that agents can use.
⬇

 1

 class TaskActions:

 2

 def get_traces(ns: str, duration: int = 5) -> str:

 3

 """

 4

 Collects trace data of the services from Jaeger.

 5

 Args:

 6

 ns (str): The K8S namespace.

 7

 duration (int): Duration to collect traces.

 8

 Returns:

 9

 str: Path to the directory where traces saved.

 10

 """

 11

 trace_api = TraceAPI(ns)

 12

 end_t = datetime.now()

 13

 start_t = end_t - timedelta(duration)

 14

 traces = trace_api.extract_traces(start_t, end_t)

 15

 return trace_api.save_traces(traces)

As shown, the ACI encapsulates complex operations
behind simple APIs like get_traces.
On initializing a problem, the Orchestrator automatically
extracts documentation from these APIs
to provide as context CC
to the agent.
At runtime, agents can specify a wide range of actions on the service (e.g., scaling, redeploying, patching)
by way of the Orchestrator’s privileged access.
Finally, the Orchestrator conveys the service’s state after each action with high-quality feedback to the agent,
including outputs, error messages, and tracebacks.

2.2.2 Session Interface

Another key responsibility of the Orchestrator is to manage the lifecycle of the agent and the service.
We implement the Orchestrator as a session-based system, where a Session
is created for each instance of an agent solving a problem.
Agents are registered with the Orchestrator, and a session starts with simple API calls passing a unique problem identifier 1.
AIOpsLab’s design is highly flexible and integrates with the growing LLM and agent framework space.
Our only requirement is that the agent must implement a get_action method with
the following signature: async def get_action(state: str) -> str.
It takes the service’s state as input from the Orchestrator and returns the next action the agent wants to take.
Note that this could be a simple wrapper function around any existing agent framework.

Example 2.3.

In this simplified example, we illustrate how an Agent can be onboarded to AIOpsLab.

⬇

 1

 from aiopslab import Orchestrator

 2

 class Agent:

 3

 def __init__(self, prob, instructs, apis):

 4

 self.prompt = self.set_prompt(prob, instructs, apis)

 5

 self.llm = GPT4()

 6

 7

 async def get_action(self, state: str) -> str:

 8

 return self.llm.generate(self.prompt + state)

 9

 10

 #initialize the orchestrator

 11

 orch = Orchestrator()

 12

 pid = "misconfig_app_hotel_res-mitigation-1"

 13

 prob_desc, instructs, apis = orch.init_problem(pid)

 14

 #register and evaluate the agent

 15

 agent = Agent(prob_desc, instructs, apis)

 16

 orch.register_agent(agent, name="myAgent")

 17

 asyncio.run(orch.start_problem(max_steps=10))

As shown on initializing a problem, the Orchestrator shares context necessary for the agent to solve the problem.
It then polls (via get_action) for the agent’s next action.

2.2.3 Other Interfaces

Problem Initializers.
As described in Section 2.1,
each problem is defined with a context CC
which includes its operational environment. This environment is the service, fault, and workload conditions under which the problem occurs.
Here, the Orchestrator deploys services and uses infrastructure-as-code tools like Helm (2024) to deploy the required cloud service for each problem.
We describe services already integrated
into AIOpsLab in Section 2.3.

As shown in Figure 2, to create realistic benchmark scenarios, the Orchestrator then interfaces with two entities: (1) a workload generator 5 and (2) a fault generator 3.
These generators introduce controlled service disruptions that simulate live benchmark problems.
As the workload generator, AIOpsLab currently uses the wrk2 tool Gan et al. (2019), which supports several workload policies and also replays industry workloads 6. However, the AIOpsLab is extensible to other workload generators. For fault generation, AIOpsLab uses a custom fault library that instantiates faults across different levels of the system stack 4, such as application and virtualization. The library contains and extends to several fine-grained and parametric faults that go beyond surface-level symptoms and engage deeper into more complex resolution strategies.
We describe the fault library in detail in Section 2.4.

Problem Evaluators. Finally, the Orchestrator plays a critical role in evaluating the agent’s performance on a problem. It compares the agent’s solutions against predefined success criteria and evaluation metrics specific to each task 10. AIOpsLab supports several default and common metrics for each task (e.g., Time-to-Detect for detection, number of steps taken, and tokens produced by an LLM-powered agent sent to AIOpsLab).
Additionally, AIOpsLab provides an optional qualitative evaluation
of agent trajectories using LLMs-as-Judges Zheng et al. (2024).
Beyond that, all user-defined evaluation metrics specific to the problem are run. For instance, for the localization problem in Example 2.1, the metric success is defined by the agent’s submission matching the fault microservice’s name. Lastly, the Orchestrator maintains comprehensive logs of all agent trajectories, including actions taken and resulting system states,
facilitating detailed analysis and debugging.
All of the evaluation results will be automatically collected.

2.3 Cloud Services

AIOpsLab deploys live microservice applications as cloud environments 2.
AIOpsLab is currently integrated with the HotelReservation and SocialNetwork from DeathStarBench Gan et al. (2019).
The SocialNetwork application has 28 microservices, including Memcached, MongoDB, and Redis, that together implement several features of real-world social networking applications.
The HotelReservation application, implemented with Go and gRPC, supports services like recommending and reserving hotels.

Faults Provided by AIOpsLab (§2.4)

Symptomatic Faults (§2.4.2)

Functional Faults (§2.4.3)

Network Loss

Pod Failure

Application-level Faults

Virtualization-level Faults

Figure 3: Fault categories to instantiate problems in AIOpsLab.

2.4 Task-oriented Fault Library

2.4.1 Task Taxonomy

We present a task-level taxonomy (Table 1) that categorizes the tasks that AIOps agents should accomplish according to the different stages of the incident management lifecycle, with progressively increasing complexity.
In Table 1, a higher level indicates a harder and more impactful task to evaluate agents.

Level 1 focuses on the preliminary identification of unusual behavior within the system, for example, detecting a malfunctioning Kubernetes pod of a microservice.
Also, users can define more complex tasks or create sub-tasks.
The root cause analysis task has both the system level
and fault type prediction sub-tasks to be solved.

To instantiate problems across different task levels,
we use fault injection to inject faults into the system,
and construct a problem pool for AIOpsLab.
We classify them into two main types,
symptomatic faults and functional faults,
as shown in Figure 3.

Table 1: Task taxonomy for AIOps agent evaluation. The lower the level, the easier the task. AIOpsLab aims to evaluate agents across all task levels with its problems.

Level

Task (# sub tasks)

Evaluation Focus

1

Detection (1)

Can the approach accurately detect anomalies or deviations?

2

Localization (1)

Can the approach pinpoint a fault’s exact source (e.g., microservice)?

3

Root Cause Analysis (RCA) (2)

Can the approach determine the underlying cause of the fault?

4

Mitigation (1)

Can the approach give effective solutions to recover the environment?

Figure 4: Revoke authentication fault example. Injection happens at Mongodb-geo service, while Geo service will be abnormal and generate error logs.

2.4.2 Symptomatic Faults

Symptomatic faults, such as performance degradation and crash failures,
manifest as observable symptoms,
such as increased latency,
resource exhaustion, or service outages.
These faults typically help to construct Level 1
and Level 2 tasks in the taxonomy,
which can create problems that
evaluate AIOps approaches’ detection and localization ability.
These faults provide an overview of potential problems
but do not necessarily reveal the deeper,
underlying root causes of issues (since they do not have one).
AIOpsLab integrates the fault injection tool,
Chaos-Mesh ChaosMesh Authors (2022),
to inject symptomatic faults into microservice applications.

2.4.3 Functional Faults

Though there are many fault injection tools for testing the resilience of cloud systems Marinescu and Candea (2009); Banabic and Candea (2012); Christakis et al. (2017); Zhang and Elbaum (2012); Kingsbury (2022); Pillai et al. (2014); Alquraan et al. (2018); Lu et al. (2019); Chen et al. (2020); Leesatapornwongsa et al. (2014); Gunawi et al. (2011); Majumdar and Niksic (2018); Ju et al. (2013); Heorhiadi et al. (2016); Alagappan et al. (2016); Mohan et al. (2018); Sun et al. (2022); Canini et al. (2012),
most of them focus solely on injecting system symptoms.
These coarse-grained faults can only disrupt without modeling the underlying, fine-grained root causes, e.g., misconfigurations or software bugs,
and hence are unable to evaluate the capabilities of AIOps agents
to diagnose and mitigate root causes.

The failure scenarios to evaluate AIOps agents across tasks must go beyond simple performance or crash failures, and reflect realistic cases that challenge agents, where functional faults come into play.
Functional faults require approaches
to not only detect (Level 1) and localize (Level 2) the failure
but also diagnose the root cause (Level 3),
such as incorrect deployment or operations,
and apply the correct mitigation strategies (Level 4).
For instance, the fault in Figure 4
revokes the admin authentication for the MongoDB database of the geographic microservice (Mongodb-geo).
Since the Geo service relies on its backend database,
errors will appear during its invocation.

Example 2.4.

In the following example, we illustrate the structure of the application-level fault injector for a revoke authentication fault and its usage example in AIOpsLab.
⬇

 1

 from aiopslab.generators.fault.base import FaultInjector

 2

 from aiopslab.service.apps.hotelres import HotelReservation

 3

 class ApplicationFaultInjector(FaultInjector):

 4

 def inject_revoke_auth(self, microservices: list[str]):

 5

 """Revoke MongoDB admin privileges."""

 6

 ...

 7

 def recover_revoke_auth(self, microservices: list[str]):

 8

 """Recover the revoke admin privileges fault."""

 9

 ...

 10

 # Usage Example

 11

 class MongoDBRevokeAuth:

 12

 def __init__(self):

 13

 self.app = HotelReservation()

 14

 15

 def inject_fault(self):

 16

 injector = ApplicationFaultInjector(ns)

 17

 injector._inject(["mongodb-geo"], "revoke_auth")

Users can define problems using the existing fault library. For instance, users can specify different faulty services or even construct a task that injects multiple faults into multiple services concurrently. Users can also customize their faults to generate various problems.
AIOpsLab provides the injection function
for its associated failure scenarios
and offers the corresponding mitigation mechanism
to recover the system from the erroneous state.
In Section 3.3, we will discuss the current problem pool we implement.

2.5 Observability

AIOpsLab is equipped with an extensible observability layer to provide comprehensive monitoring capabilities.
AIOpsLab collects a wide array of telemetry data by its telemetry collector,
including (1) traces from Jaeger Jaeger Authors (2024) detailing
the end-to-end paths of requests through distributed systems, (2)
application logs retrieved by Kubectl, or formatted and recorded by Filebeat Elasticsearch (2024b) and Logstash Elasticsearch (2024a),
and (3) system metrics monitored by Prometheus Prometheus Authors (2024).
AIOpsLab not only supports data collection during the interaction with the LLM agent but can also export the data offline to facilitate evaluating other traditional AIOps approaches.
Besides, AIOpsLab is designed to capture information from other dimensions, e.g., codebase, configuration, and cluster information. Developers can also design and expose low-level system information (such as syscall logs) to agents using AIOpsLab’s interface.

3 Evaluation

Table 2: Selected faults used to instantiate the problems for evaluation in AIOpsLab. Ext. stands for extensibility. ●\CIRCLE denotes the fault can be easily used to construct other problems; ◐\LEFTcircle denotes there is some manual effort needed to create new problems; while ○\Circle means the fault is specific to some problems and cannot be applied to create other problems.

No.
Name
Application
Task Level
Category
Ext.
# Problem
Description

1
AuthenticationMissing
HotelReservation
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Virtualization

◐\LEFTcircle
4

Missing authentication credentials cause

access denial to MongoDB.

2
TargetPortMisconfig
SocialNetwork
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Virtualization

●\CIRCLE
12

The service cannot connect to the specified

port due to misconfiguration.

3
RevokeAuth
HotelReservation
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Application

◐\LEFTcircle
8

Revoked authentication causes database

connection failure.

4
UserUnregistered
HotelReservation
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Application

◐\LEFTcircle
8

The database service has access failures

after the user was unregistered.

5
BuggyAppImage
HotelReservation
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Application

○\Circle
4

Connection code bug in the application

image causes access issues.

6
ScalePod
SocialNetwork
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Virtualization

●\CIRCLE
4

Incorrect scaling operation makes the

number of pod zero for a service.

7
AssignNonExistentNode
SocialNetwork
1, 2, 3, 4

Functional

Virtualization

●\CIRCLE
4

Pod in a pending a failure status due to

wrong assignment to a non-existent node.

8
NetworkLoss

HotelReservation

1, 2
Symptomatic
●\CIRCLE
2

Network loss causes communication

failures for a specific service.

9
PodFailure

HotelReservation

1, 2
Symptomatic
●\CIRCLE
2

Service interruption due to a pod failure.

10
Noop

HotelReservation

SocialNetwork

1
-
●\CIRCLE
2
No faults injected into the system.

This section begins by outlining the evaluation setup
and metrics employed within AIOpsLab.
We then delve into the selected faults listed in Table 2,
which serve as diverse evaluation scenarios within AIOpsLab.
Following this, we evaluate the performance of the AIOps agents
solving these problems,
and then analyze the cost of the agents.
We also dig into the reasons behind the performance differences
to understand the challenges and potential agent improvements.
Note that, all of the results are automatically
collected and recorded by the problem evaluators (Section 2.2.3).

3.1 Evaluation Setup

We evaluate four LLM-based agents with AIOpsLab.
Note that, for a fair comparison,
we register the naive agent in AIOpsLab
without any fine-tuning or modifications.
We use GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4-turbo Achiam et al. (2023) that have access to
only a secure shell as baselines (GPT-w-Shell).
In addition, we also evaluate the performance of ReAct Yao et al. (2023),
which extends chain-of-thought reasoning Wei et al. (2022b)
by integrating reasoning and acting in an interleaved manner,

As for cloud operation-specific agents,
we choose
Flash Zhang et al. (2024b).
Flash employs a workflow automation system
that monitors execution status and decomposes complex instructions
into manageable, conditional segments.
It incorporates hindsight generation to
learn from past interactions.
As Flash was not publicly available at the time of writing,
we develop a simplified version that
retrospectively generates insights after each step.

To compare with other AIOps approaches specific to a certain type of task,
we evaluate three state-of-the-art,
non-LLM-based AIOps algorithms on AIOpsLab,
using (multi-modal) telemetry data as input.
They are: MKSMC Çetin and Tasgin (2020) for detection,
RMLAD Wang et al. (2020) and PDiagnose Hou et al. (2021)
for localization.

3.2 Metrics

Correctness.
This metric measures the accuracy of the agent’s response to problems. It evaluates whether the agent successfully detects, localizes, analyzes and resolves the problems as expected.

Time/Steps.
These metrics evaluate the efficiency of the AIOps agent for each type of task. For example, Time-to-Detect (TTD) is the time elapsed from the occurrence of a fault to its detection, and Time-to-Mitigate (TTM) is the time taken from detection to complete mitigation of the fault.
The number of steps or actions taken to solve the problem is also recorded.
Note that this is the number of times the agent interacts with the AIOpsLab instead of the number of requests sent to the backend LLM.

Cost. We use the number of tokens,
including both the input token and output tokens,
generated by the agents/environment
as an indicator of the cost.

3.3 Problem Pool of AIOpsLab Benchmark

Currently, AIOpsLab benchmark consists of 48 problems in its problem pool.
With six agents, we evaluate a total of 288 cases.
Table 2 lists the faults used to instantiate the problems.
As shown in Table 2, all functional faults (including Fault 1-7)
are used to create problems at all of the four task levels;
while the symptomatic faults (including Fault 8-9)
can only be used to create problems at the detection
and localization levels (Level 1 and Level 2).
In the detection-level task, the agents must identify the presence of faults in real-time.
This task is a binary classification, where the agents have to respond either “yes” if a fault is present or “no” on the contrary.
The detection task (Level 1) can be made more complex, e.g., by asking the agents to label the abnormal telemetry data; however, we keep it simple here and leave the complex tasks to other levels.
The localization (Level 2) task asks the agents to
specify the exact location of the fault,
usually a service or pod name in Kubernetes.
The RCA task (Level 3) requires the agents to identify (1) the system layer the fault affects and (2) the type of the fault, e.g., misconfiguration or operation error.
The mitigation task (Level 4) requires the agents to
interact with the environment
to fix the fault with a series of actions,
such as updating the configuration,
or rollback to a previous version, etc.

Most faults enable users to extend and create new problems easily
by injecting the fault into other targets, such as services.
For example, Fault 2 in AIOpsLab can be injected into 10 services
by simply configuring the injection target.
We select the “user-service”, “text-service”,
and “post-storage-service” from SocialNetwork as injection targets.
Injecting faults into different targets is crucial
because each service may have distinct dependencies,
resulting in varied fault “blast radius” or failure propagation topologies.
Consequently, faults can manifest at different locations
within the microservice architecture
to help evaluate the ability of the AIOps agents
since different locations may indicate distinct difficulties.
Applying some faults to construct problems
may require additional effort.
For example, Fault 3 and Fault 4 require the users to not only
prepare the scripts to trigger the admin privilege
revoke or user unregisteration during the testing,
but also update the config map of the application in Kubernetes;
and Fault 1 needs to enforce its TLS requirements
through a Helm configuration update.
Furthermore, some faults are designed for specific problems
and are not readily adaptable, such as Fault 5,
which involves an application-level code bug
in the microservice’s image.

3.4 Performance Results

The overall performance of the agents is summarized in
Table 3,
with task-specific results in Table 4.
As illustrated in Table 3,
Flash achieves the highest accuracy among all agents.
Although GPT-3.5-turbo completes the tasks the fastest,
it has the lowest accuracy at 15.25%.

Table 3: Overall performance of different agents. We show the lines of code (LoC) to register the agent in AIOpsLab, average running time in seconds, average number of steps taken, average tokens used, and accuracy across all problems.

Agent
LoC
Time (s)
# Steps
Tokens
Acc.

GPT-4-w-Shell
41
28.61
6.44
6,394.5
49.15%

GPT-3.5-w-Shell
41
12.44
14.70
2,557.95
15.25%

ReAct
49
43.79
11.50
16,941.46
55.93%

Flash
60
99.64
8.48
6,484.25
59.32%

Table 4: Agent performance by task. This table summarizes the performance of different agents across various tasks including detection, localization, RCA, and mitigation. Acc. stands for accuracy.
Input/Output represents the number of tokens given to and produced by the agent, respectively.

Agent
Accuracy
Time (s)
# Steps
Input
Output

GPT-4-w-Shell
69.23%
7.08
3.85
5,492
132

GPT-3.5-w-Shell
23.07%
11.05
13.60
1,940.44
385.56

ReAct
76.92%
39.00
11.46
15,608.08
933.15

Flash
100%
78.27
6.77
12,869.08
125.69

MKSMC
15.38%
1.00
N/A
N/A
N/A

(a) Detection Task

Agent
Acc.@3
Acc.@1
Time (s)
# Steps
Input
Output

GPT-4-w-Shell
61.54%
61.54%
7.04
4.23
4,588.07
133.23

GPT-3.5-w-Shell
30.77%
30.77%
6.26
11.92
1,784.23
217.08

ReAct
69.23%
53.85%↓\downarrow
38.65
11.08
4,760.77
880.92

Flash
61.54%
46.15%↓\downarrow
56.60
5.77
1,875.08
123.31

PDiagnose
15.38%
15.38%
1.02
N/A
N/A
N/A

RMLAD
7.69%
7.69%
1.98
N/A
N/A
N/A

(b) Localization Task

Agent
Accuracy
Time (s)
# Steps
Input
Output

GPT-4-w-Shell
40.90%
8.68
4.81
4,297.91
176.18

GPT-3.5-w-Shell
9.09%
10.06
14.00
1,495.55
406.27

ReAct
45.45%
32.16
8.00
16,276.09
757.27

Flash
36.36%
59.00
6.09
1,193.90
152.45

(c) Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Task

Agent
Accuracy
Time (s)
# Steps
Input
Output

GPT-4-w-Shell
27.27%
99.47
13.72
10,142.55
1,060.00

GPT-3.5-w-Shell
0%
23.78
20.00
3,178.33
967.71

ReAct
36.36%
67.18
15.54
29,211.90
1,464.90

Flash
54.55%
216.41
16.09
8,469.00
760.36

(d) Mitigation Task

The detection task, being a binary choice question,
should be the simplest task
and the first step an AIOps agent performs.
However, as shown in  Figure 5(a),
only Flash answers all the detection problems correctly.
For localization task,
agents are allowed to come up with
a list of potential faulty services as their answers
(since there could be multiple faults happenning
in the system at the same time).
To evaluate their accuracy, we consider both the top 1 and top 3 answers.
In  Figure 5(b),
ReAct performs best when evaluated using the top 3 answers,
but its accuracy drops when considering the top 1.
The RCA and mitigation tasks
prove to be the most challenging for the agents.
GPT-3.5-w-Shell fails to recover any failure
in its mitigation attempts.

Problem difficulty differs across task levels.
Despite showing promise in addressing realistic operational tasks,
none of the agents consistently achieve high problem-solving accuracy
across four task categories in AIOpsLab benchmark.
Even the top-performing agents, such as Flash,
exhibit limitations, particularly when tackling more complex tasks
like mitigation.
In Section 3.6, we will explore in detail
the failure modes and challenges
contributing to these performance limitations of agents,
and opportunities for improvement.

3.5 Influence of the Step Limit

We examine the impact of the maximum number of
allowed steps on the agent’s performance,
with the results shown in Figure 5.
The step limit significantly affects the performance of certain agents.
For instance, ReAct and Flash show improved accuracy
with more steps, with Flash reaching the highest accuracy of 59.32%
when the step limit is set to 20.
However, for GPT-3.5-turbo,
increasing the step limit beyond 5 does not yield better performance
but merely increases the token consumption.
Notably, the plateauing of accuracy after a certain number of steps indicates that self-repair with environment feedback can saturate quickly for AIOps problems.
On the contrary, in development tasks (Dev), such as code generation, feedback via various compositional tools such as linters, type checkers, and test cases help agents continuously improve.
This suggests the need for (1) better task decomposition for AIOps problems using planning, (2) improved feedback mechanisms for intermediate steps, and (3) solutions that go beyond environment feedback and self-repair.

Figure 5: Agent performance vs. number of steps taken.

3.6 Agent Behavior: The Good, the Bad and the Gaps

Table 5: Occurrences of system commands.

Agent
find
echo
py
awk
mongo
grep
ls
cat
ip

ReAct
0
0
0
3
0
1
26
30
0

Flash
0
3
0
0
0
0
8
10
0

We now delve into the behaviors of the agents
and analyze the good, the challenges,
and opportunities for improvement.
In Table 4,
we see that all agents perform
better than the traditional non-LLM AIOps methods
in terms of the problems for detection and localization tasks.
Figure 6,
shows the
telemetry API usage patterns among agents.
The get_logs API
is the most frequently used API across all agents,
then the get_metrics, and the get_traces APIs.
However, agents also diverge in their patterns of API usage.
For example,
Flash does not use the get_traces API at all.
We present the occurrences of other system commands
for each agent in Table 5.
We next discuss the underlying reasons and patterns contributing to the agents’ poor performance.

3.6.1 Wasting steps on unnecessary actions

We observe that agents often waste steps on unnecessary actions,
such as repeatedly calling the same API,
generating non-existent APIs,
or spending excessive steps in multi-agent communication.
Specifically, the GPT-3.5-w-Shell agent often generates incorrect API commands in loops,
leading to repeated errors in execution.
For instance, setting speaker_selection_method
as round_robin allows every agent to speak in every step,
but this often prevents decisive, efficient decisions,
as agents repeatedly resort to telemetry APIs for more information.
Even with the speaker_selection_method
set to auto, where the next speaker is automatically chosen,
a selected agent always
speaks ten times in a step without communication
(with a maximum of ten communication rounds per step).

Figure 6: Total percentage of actions taken by different agents.

(a) Successful cases.

(b) Failure cases.

Figure 7: Action distribution by success and failure cases.

3.6.2 Overloaded information when consuming data

To dig deeper into the agent failure modes,
we analyze the correlation between the agents’ actions and the success or failure of problem-solving,
as well as the distribution of actions across steps.
In Figure 7,
we present the distribution of actions
for both successful and failed cases.
Agents tend to
use get_metrics and get_traces APIs sparingly in successfully resolved problems,
typically only when necessary.
This is understandable, as the metrics data,
e.g., CPU and memory usage have numerous values,
which are hard to directly interpret,
and trace data are descriptive records
of the system’s dependencies,
which are more comprehensible when visualized.
However, agents may subsequently consume
these data with a cat
command directly, which can overwhelm
the model’s input context window
and cause distraction and more tokens to be consumed.
Consequently, using these telemetry APIs
without careful consideration
or analysis can add more noise
into the agents’ reasoning,
possibly leading to token exhaustion.
We expect more refined telemetry data processing
and filtering mechanisms to be implemented in the agents
to avoid this issue in the future.

3.6.3 Invalid API usage

We notice that agents can struggle with improper formatting of API calls.
For instance, GPT-3.5-w-Shell consistently generates
incorrect command formats (though the API name is correct),
such as malformed parameters,
and repeat the error in subsequent steps.
In many cases, GPT-3.5-w-Shell
repeatedly responds with:
“I apologize for the error. Here is the API call again:”
followed by the same/similar mistake.
This issue is observed as many as 14 times
within a 20-step problem-solving case.

Similar issues with invalid API usage are also observed in other agents.
For instance, the ReAct agent occasionally generates incorrect API commands,
but typically recovers by reasoning
through the errors and self-correcting its commands.
In the following example,
ReAct uses an incorrect parameter for the
get_logs API, but subsequently corrects it by
checking the existing services in its next step.

ReAct: get_logs("test-social-network", "Social Network") 
AIOpsLab: Error: Your service/namespace does not exist. 
ReAct: 
 Thought: I should check the services deployed within the test-social-network namespace to ensure I use the correct service name. 
 Action: I will list the services in the test-social-network namespace to confirm the correct name of the service. 
 exec_shell("kubectl get services -n test-social-network")

3.6.4 False positive detection issues

To further evaluate the agents’ performance,
we set up two detection problems for the two microservice applications
where no faults exist,
referred to as no operation (Fault 10 – Noop in Table 2) problems.
Only GPT-4-w-Shell
correctly identify these cases
as normal system execution,
while the others report false positives,
misinterpreting normal activities
(e.g., standard workload generation) as faults.

4 Discussion

AIOpsLab helps engineers to easily create customized incident scenarios for evaluating agents. By providing Agent Cloud Interfaces (ACIs) as guard-rails, AIOpsLab ensures that agents are tested within a controlled environment, allowing users to focus on designing scenarios that accurately represent incidents in their systems and defining the specific problems their agents should solve.

AIOpsLab is also adaptable to other fault types. For example, an anomaly detection workload scenario can be introduced for detection tasks. Further, users can create problems where agents are required to label the workload or telemetry data to identify anomalies.

When implementing problem evaluators, fine-grained evaluation oracles, or AIOpsLab’s optional LLM-as-Judge, may be necessary. For instance, in the binary-choice detection task, agents may answer correctly but provide incorrect interpretations or reasoning. In one case, an agent claimed to detect an abnormal system behavior, but its explanation referenced a workload that was, in fact, normal and unrelated to the injected fault. Leveraging AIOpsLab’s LLM-as-Judges can help address this issue by comparing the LLM reasoning chains with the problem description (including the fault, workload, and environment setup).

5 Related Work

AgentOps. Recent advancements in cloud management have increasingly incorporated LLMs to enhance operational tasks.
Approaches such as fine-tuned GPT models Ahmed et al. (2023), RCACopilot Chen et al. (2024), RCAgent Wang et al. (2023), MonitorAssistant Yu et al. (2024a), and Xpert Jiang et al. (2024) illustrate the effectiveness of LLMs in monitoring and analyzing complex system behaviors.
However, beyond the lack of publicly available implementations and associated private datasets,
there is a notable gap: the absence of a unified benchmark capable of providing realistic evaluation scenarios to assess agents’ performance across operational tasks.

AIOps benchmarks. 
Existing AIOps benchmarks primarily rely on
static or text-based datasets,
such as system metrics Han et al. (2022); Jacob et al. (2020),
typically time series data,
or fixed question-answer format Liu et al. (2023).
These benchmarks, together with the general Language Model benchmarks Hendrycks et al. (2021b); Hendrycks et al. (2021a); Liang et al. (2023); Lee et al. (2024); BIG-bench authors (2023); Huang et al. (2023),
do not simulate the dynamic
and complex cloud environments,
not to mention allowing agents
to interact with them to solve operational tasks.

6 Conclusion

In this paper, we unravel the requirements and challenges for a comprehensive framework that supports the design, development, and evaluation of autonomous AIOps agents.
We develop a framework, AIOpsLab, which combines a fault injector, workload generator, cloud-agent orchestrator, and telemetry observer to simulate cloud incidents and provide an agent-cloud interface for orchestrating and evaluating AIOps agents.
We leverage AIOpsLab to construct a benchmark suite with 48 problems and evaluate four agents to demonstrate the application of AIOpsLab in evaluating LLM-based agents across different types of AIOps tasks.

References

Achiam et al. (2023)

Josh Achiam, Steven
Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad,
Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt,
Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat,
et al. 2023.

Gpt-4 technical report.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774
(2023).

Ahmed et al. (2023)

Toufique Ahmed, Supriyo
Ghosh, Chetan Bansal, Thomas Zimmermann,
Xuchao Zhang, and Saravan Rajmohan.
2023.

Recommending Root-Cause and Mitigation Steps for
Cloud Incidents using Large Language Models. In
Proceedings of the 45th International Conference on
Software Engineering (ICSE’23).

Alagappan et al. (2016)

Ramnatthan Alagappan,
Aishwarya Ganesan, Yuvraj Patel,
Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai,
Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H.
Arpaci-Dusseau. 2016.

Correlated Crash Vulnerabilities. In
Proceedings of the 12th USENIX Conference on
Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI’16).

Alquraan et al. (2018)

Ahmed Alquraan, Hatem
Takruri, Mohammed Alfatafta, and Samer
Al-Kiswany. 2018.

An Analysis of Network-Partitioning Failures in
Cloud Systems. In Proceedings of the 13th USENIX
Conference on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI’18).

Banabic and Candea (2012)

Radu Banabic and George
Candea. 2012.

Fast Black-Box Testing of System Recovery Code.
In Proceedings of the 7th European Conference on
Computer Systems (EuroSys’12).

BIG-bench authors (2023)

BIG-bench authors.
2023.

Beyond the Imitation Game: Quantifying and
extrapolating the capabilities of language models.

Transactions on Machine Learning Research
(2023).

Canini et al. (2012)

Marco Canini, Daniele
Venzano, Peter Perešíni, Dejan
Kostić, and Jennifer Rexford.
2012.

A NICE Way to Test OpenFlow Applications. In
Proceedings of the 9th USENIX Conference on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI’12).

Çetin and Tasgin (2020)

Uzay Çetin and
Mursel Tasgin. 2020.

Anomaly detection with multivariate K-sigma score
using Monte Carlo. In 2020 5th International
Conference on Computer Science and Engineering.

ChaosBlade Team (2019)

ChaosBlade Team.
2019.

ChaosBlade.

https://github.com/chaosblade-io/chaosblade.

Accessed: 2024-07-08.

ChaosMesh Authors (2022)

ChaosMesh Authors.
2022.

ChaosMesh.

https://chaos-mesh.org/.

Accessed: 2024-07-08.

Chen et al. (2020)

Haicheng Chen, Wensheng
Dou, Dong Wang, and Feng Qin.
2020.

CoFI: Consistency-Guided Fault Injection for Cloud
Systems. In Proceedings of the 35th ACM/IEEE
International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE’20).

Chen et al. (2021)

Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek,
Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan,
Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared
Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda,
Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman,
et al. 2021.

Evaluating large language models trained on code.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374
(2021).

Chen et al. (2024)

Yinfang Chen, Huaibing
Xie, Minghua Ma, Yu Kang,
Xin Gao, Liu Shi, Yunjie
Cao, Xuedong Gao, Hao Fan,
Ming Wen, Jun Zeng,
Supriyo Ghosh, Xuchao Zhang,
Chaoyun Zhang, Qingwei Lin,
Saravan Rajmohan, Dongmei Zhang, and
Tianyin Xu. 2024.

Automatic Root Cause Analysis via Large Language
Models for Cloud Incidents. In Proceedings of the
Nineteenth European Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys’24).

Christakis et al. (2017)

Maria Christakis, Patrick
Emmisberger, Patrice Godefroid, and
Peter Müller. 2017.

A General Framework for Dynamic Stub Injection.
In Proceedings of the 39th International Conference
on Software Engineering (ICSE’17).

Dai et al. (2009)

Yuanshun Dai, Yanping
Xiang, and Gewei Zhang.
2009.

Self-healing and Hybrid Diagnosis in Cloud
Computing. In Cloud Computing,
Martin Gilje Jaatun,
Gansen Zhao, and Chunming Rong (Eds.).
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin,
Heidelberg.

Elasticsearch (2024a)

Elasticsearch.
2024a.

Centralize, transform & stash your data.

https://www.elastic.co/logstash.

Elasticsearch (2024b)

Elasticsearch.
2024b.

Lightweight shipper for logs.

https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat.

Gan et al. (2019)

Yu Gan, Yanqi Zhang,
Dailun Cheng, Ankitha Shetty,
Priyal Rathi, Nayan Katarki,
Ariana Bruno, Justin Hu,
Brian Ritchken, Brendon Jackson,
et al. 2019.

An open-source benchmark suite for microservices
and their hardware-software implications for cloud & edge systems. In
Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on
Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems
(ASPLOS’19).

Ganatra et al. (2023)

Vaibhav Ganatra, Anjaly
Parayil, Supriyo Ghosh, Yu Kang,
Minghua Ma, Chetan Bansal,
Suman Nath, and Jonathan Mace.
2023.

Detection Is Better Than Cure: A Cloud Incidents
Perspective. In Proceedings of the 31st Joint
European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of
Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE’23).

Gunawi et al. (2011)

Haryadi S. Gunawi, Thanh
Do, Pallavi Joshi, Peter Alvaro,
Joseph M. Hellerstein, Andrea C.
Arpaci-Dusseau, Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau,
Koushik Sen, and Dhruba Borthakur.
2011.

Fate and Destini: A Framework for Cloud Recovery
Testing. In Proceedings of the 8th USENIX
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI’11).

Han et al. (2022)

Songqiao Han, Xiyang Hu,
Hailiang Huang, Minqi Jiang, and
Yue Zhao. 2022.

ADBench: Anomaly Detection Benchmark. In
Thirty-sixth Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track.

He et al. (2023)

Shilin He, Botao Feng,
Liqun Li, Xu Zhang, Yu
Kang, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan,
and Dongmei Zhang. 2023.

STEAM: Observability-Preserving Trace Sampling.
Association for Computing Machinery.

He et al. (2022)

Shilin He, Xu Zhang,
Pinjia He, Yong Xu,
Liqun Li, Yu Kang,
Minghua Ma, Yining Wei,
Yingnong Dang, Saravanakumar Rajmohan,
et al. 2022.

An empirical study of log analysis at Microsoft.
In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European
Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering (ESEC/FSE).

Helm (2024)

Helm. 2024.

Helm: The package manager for Kubernetes.

Hendrycks et al. (2021a)

Dan Hendrycks, Collin
Burns, Steven Basart, Andrew Critch,
Jerry Li, Dawn Song, and
Jacob Steinhardt. 2021a.

Aligning AI With Shared Human Values.

Proceedings of the International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR’21) (2021).

Hendrycks et al. (2021b)

Dan Hendrycks, Collin
Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou,
Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and
Jacob Steinhardt. 2021b.

Measuring Massive Multitask Language
Understanding.

Proceedings of the International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR’21) (2021).

Heorhiadi et al. (2016)

Victor Heorhiadi, Shriram
Rajagopalan, Hani Jamjoom, Michael K
Reiter, and Vyas Sekar.
2016.

Gremlin: Systematic Resilience Testing of
Microservices. In Proceedings of the IEEE 36th
International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS’16).

Hou et al. (2021)

Chuanjia Hou, Tong Jia,
Yifan Wu, Ying Li, and
Jing Han. 2021.

Diagnosing performance issues in microservices with
heterogeneous data source. In 2021 IEEE Intl Conf
on Parallel & Distributed Processing with Applications, Big Data & Cloud
Computing, Sustainable Computing & Communications, Social Computing &
Networking (ISPA/BDCloud/SocialCom/SustainCom).

Huang et al. (2023)

Yuzhen Huang, Yuzhuo Bai,
Zhihao Zhu, Junlei Zhang,
Jinghan Zhang, Tangjun Su,
Junteng Liu, Chuancheng Lv,
Yikai Zhang, Jiayi Lei,
Yao Fu, Maosong Sun, and
Junxian He. 2023.

C-Eval: A Multi-Level Multi-Discipline Chinese
Evaluation Suite for Foundation Models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS’23).

Jacob et al. (2020)

Vincent Jacob, Fei Song,
Arnaud Stiegler, Yanlei Diao, and
Nesime Tatbul. 2020.

AnomalyBench: An Open Benchmark for Explainable
Anomaly Detection.

CoRR (2020).

Jaeger Authors (2024)

Jaeger Authors.
2024.

Jaeger: Open source, end-to-end distributed tracing.

https://www.jaegertracing.io.

Jain et al. (2024a)

Naman Jain, King Han,
Alex Gu, Wen-Ding Li,
Fanjia Yan, Tianjun Zhang,
Sida Wang, Armando Solar-Lezama,
Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica.
2024a.

LiveCodeBench: Holistic and Contamination Free
Evaluation of Large Language Models for Code.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.07974
(2024).

Jain et al. (2024b)

Naman Jain, Manish
Shetty, Tianjun Zhang, King Han,
Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica.
2024b.

R2E: Turning any Github Repository into a
Programming Agent Environment. In Forty-first
International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML’24).

Jiang et al. (2024)

Yuxuan Jiang, Chaoyun
Zhang, Shilin He, Zhihao Yang,
Minghua Ma, Si Qin, Yu
Kang, Yingnong Dang, Saravan Rajmohan,
Qingwei Lin, and Dongmei Zhang.
2024.

Xpert: Empowering Incident Management with Query
Recommendations via Large Language Models. In
Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE’24).

Jimenez et al. (2024)

Carlos E Jimenez, John
Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao,
Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and
Karthik R Narasimhan. 2024.

SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-world
Github Issues?. In The Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR’24).

Ju et al. (2013)

Xiaoen Ju, Livio Soares,
Kang G. Shin, Kyung Dong Ryu, and
Dilma Da Silva. 2013.

On Fault Resilience of OpenStack. In
Proceedings of the 12th ACM Symposium on Cloud
Computing (SOCC’13).

Kingsbury (2022)

Kyle Kingsbury.
2022.

Jepsen.

https://jepsen.io/.

Lee et al. (2024)

Tony Lee, Michihiro
Yasunaga, Chenlin Meng, Yifan Mai,
Joon Sung Park, Agrim Gupta,
Yunzhi Zhang, Deepak Narayanan,
Hannah Teufel, Marco Bellagente,
et al. 2024.

Holistic evaluation of text-to-image models.

Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS’24) (2024).

Leesatapornwongsa et al. (2014)

Tanakorn Leesatapornwongsa,
Mingzhe Hao, Pallavi Joshi,
Jeffrey F. Lukman, and Haryadi S.
Gunawi. 2014.

SAMC: Semantic-Aware Model Checking for Fast
Discovery of Deep Bugs in Cloud Systems. In
Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Conference on
Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI’14).

Li et al. (2012)

Wenrui Li, Pengcheng
Zhang, and Zhongxue Yang.
2012.

A Framework for Self-Healing Service Compositions
in Cloud Computing Environments. In 2012 IEEE 19th
International Conference on Web Services (ICWS’12).

Liang et al. (2023)

Percy Liang, Rishi
Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris Tsipras,
Dilara Soylu, Michihiro Yasunaga,
Yian Zhang, Deepak Narayanan,
Yuhuai Wu, Ananya Kumar,
Benjamin Newman, Binhang Yuan,
Bobby Yan, Ce Zhang,
Christian Cosgrove, Christopher D.
Manning, Christopher Ré, Diana
Acosta-Navas, Drew A. Hudson, Eric
Zelikman, Esin Durmus, Faisal Ladhak,
Frieda Rong, Hongyu Ren,
Huaxiu Yao, Jue Wang,
Keshav Santhanam, Laurel Orr,
Lucia Zheng, Mert Yuksekgonul,
Mirac Suzgun, Nathan Kim,
Neel Guha, Niladri Chatterji,
Omar Khattab, Peter Henderson,
Qian Huang, Ryan Chi,
Sang Michael Xie, Shibani Santurkar,
Surya Ganguli, Tatsunori Hashimoto,
Thomas Icard, Tianyi Zhang,
Vishrav Chaudhary, William Wang,
Xuechen Li, Yifan Mai,
Yuhui Zhang, and Yuta Koreeda.
2023.

Holistic Evaluation of Language Models.

Liu et al. (2023)

Yuhe Liu, Changhua Pei,
Longlong Xu, Bohan Chen,
Mingze Sun, Zhirui Zhang,
Yongqian Sun, Shenglin Zhang,
Kun Wang, Haiming Zhang, et al.
2023.

OpsEval: A Comprehensive Task-Oriented AIOps
Benchmark for Large Language Models.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07637
(2023).

Lu et al. (2019)

Jie Lu, Chen Liu,
Lian Li, Xiaobing Feng,
Feng Tan, Jun Yang, and
Liang You. 2019.

CrashTuner: Detecting Crash-Recovery Bugs in Cloud
Systems via Meta-Info Analysis. In Proceedings of
the 26th ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles (SOSP’19).

Ma et al. (2018)

Minghua Ma, Shenglin
Zhang, Dan Pei, Xin Huang, and
Hongwei Dai. 2018.

Robust and rapid adaption for concept drift in
software system anomaly detection. In 2018 IEEE
29th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE).
IEEE, 13–24.

Majumdar and Niksic (2018)

Rupak Majumdar and Filip
Niksic. 2018.

Why is Random Testing Effective for Partition
Tolerance Bugs?. In Proceedings of the 45th ACM
SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL’18).

Marinescu and Candea (2009)

Paul D Marinescu and
George Candea. 2009.

LFI: A Practical and General Library-Level Fault
Injector. In Proceedings of the 39th IEEE/IFIP
International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN’09).

Mialon et al. (2023)

Grégoire Mialon,
Roberto Dessì, Maria Lomeli,
Christoforos Nalmpantis, Ram Pasunuru,
Roberta Raileanu, Baptiste Rozière,
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu,
Asli Celikyilmaz, et al.
2023.

Augmented language models: a survey.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.07842
(2023).

Mohan et al. (2018)

Jayashree Mohan, Ashlie
Martinez, Soujanya Ponnapalli, Pandian
Raju, and Vijay Chidambaram.
2018.

Finding Crash-Consistency Bugs with Bounded
Black-Box Crash Testing. In Proceedings of the
13th USENIX Conference on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI’18).

Netflix (2011)

Netflix.
2011.

ChaosMonkey.

https://github.com/Netflix/chaosmonkey.

Accessed: 2024-07-08.

Pillai et al. (2014)

Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai,
Vijay Chidambaram, Samer Al Kiswany,
Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H.
Arpaci-Dusseau. 2014.

All File Systems Are Not Created Equal: On the
Complexity of Crafting Crash-Consistent Applications. In
Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Conference on
Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI’14).

Prometheus Authors (2024)

Prometheus Authors.
2024.

Prometheus.

https://prometheus.io.

Schick et al. (2024)

Timo Schick, Jane
Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta
Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro,
Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and
Thomas Scialom. 2024.

Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to
use tools.

Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS’24) (2024).

Simonsson et al. (2021)

Jesper Simonsson, Long
Zhang, Brice Morin, Benoit Baudry, and
Martin Monperrus. 2021.

Observability and chaos engineering on system calls
for containerized applications in docker.

Future Generation Computer Systems
(2021).

Somashekar et al. (2024)

Gagan Somashekar, Anurag
Dutt, Mainak Adak, Tania Lorido Botran,
and Anshul Gandhi. 2024.

GAMMA: Graph Neural Network-Based Multi-Bottleneck
Localization for Microservices Applications. In
Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024.

Sriraman and Wenisch (2018)

Akshitha Sriraman and
Thomas F Wenisch. 2018.

μ\mu suite: a benchmark suite for microservices.
In 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Workload
Characterization.

Sun et al. (2022)

Xudong Sun, Wenqing Luo,
Jiawei Tyler Gu, Aishwarya Ganesan,
Ramnatthan Alagappan, Michael Gasch,
Lalith Suresh, and Tianyin Xu.
2022.

Automatic Reliability Testing for Cluster
Management Controllers. In Proceedings of the
16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI’22).

Sun et al. (2024)

Yongqian Sun, Binpeng
Shi, Mingyu Mao, Minghua Ma,
Sibo Xia, Shenglin Zhang, and
Dan Pei. 2024.

ART: A Unified Unsupervised Framework for Incident
Management in Microservice Systems. In Proceedings
of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software
Engineering.

Wang et al. (2020)

Lingzhi Wang, Nengwen
Zhao, Junjie Chen, Pinnong Li,
Wenchi Zhang, and Kaixin Sui.
2020.

Root-cause metric location for microservice systems
via log anomaly detection. In 2020 IEEE
international conference on web services (ICWS’20).

Wang et al. (2023)

Zefan Wang, Zichuan Liu,
Yingying Zhang, Aoxiao Zhong,
Lunting Fan, Lingfei Wu, and
Qingsong Wen. 2023.

Rcagent: Cloud root cause analysis by autonomous
agents with tool-augmented large language models.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.16340
(2023).

Wei et al. (2022a)

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang,
Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma,
Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and
Denny Zhou. 2022a.

Chain of thought prompting elicits reasoning in
large language models.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.11903
(2022).

Wei et al. (2022b)

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang,
Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma,
Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V
Le, Denny Zhou, et al.
2022b.

Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in
large language models.

Advances in neural information processing
systems (NeurIPS’22) (2022).

Wolfe (2018)

Sean Wolfe.
2018.

Amazon’s one hour of downtime on Prime Day may have
cost it up to $100 million in lost sales.

(2018).

https://www.businessinsider.com/amazon-prime-day-website-issues-cost-it-millions-in-lost-sales-2018-7

Yao et al. (2023)

Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao,
Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. 2023.

ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in
Language Models. In International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR’23).

Yu et al. (2024a)

Zhaoyang Yu, Minghua Ma,
Chaoyun Zhang, Si Qin,
Yu Kang, Chetan Bansal,
Saravan Rajmohan, Yingnong Dang,
Changhua Pei, Dan Pei,
Qingwei Lin, and Dongmei Zhang.
2024a.

MonitorAssistant: Simplifying Cloud Service
Monitoring via Large Language Models. In Companion
Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on the Foundations of
Software Engineering (FSE’24).

Yu et al. (2024b)

Zhaoyang Yu, Changhua
Pei, Xin Wang, Minghua Ma,
Chetan Bansal, Saravan Rajmohan,
Qingwei Lin, Dongmei Zhang,
Xidao Wen, Jianhui Li, et al.
2024b.

Pre-trained KPI Anomaly Detection Model Through
Disentangled Transformer. In Proceedings of the
30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining.

Zaharia et al. (2024)

Matei Zaharia, Omar
Khattab, Lingjiao Chen, Jared Quincy
Davis, Heather Miller, Chris Potts,
James Zou, Michael Carbin,
Jonathan Frankle, Naveen Rao, and
Ali Ghodsi. 2024.

The Shift from Models to Compound AI Systems.

https://bair.berkeley.edu/blog/2024/02/18/compound-ai-systems/.

Zhang and Elbaum (2012)

Pingyu Zhang and
Sebastian Elbaum. 2012.

Amplifying Tests to Validate Exception Handling
Code. In Proceedings of the 34th International
Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE’12).

Zhang et al. (2018)

Qiao Zhang, Guo Yu,
Chuanxiong Guo, Yingnong Dang,
Nick Swanson, Xinsheng Yang,
Randolph Yao, , Murali
Chintalapati, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and
Thomas Anderson. 2018.

Deepview: Virtual Disk Failure Diagnosis and
Pattern Detection for Azure. In Proceedings of
the 15th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation
(NSDI’18).

Zhang et al. (2024a)

Xuchao Zhang, Supriyo
Ghosh, Chetan Bansal, Rujia Wang,
Minghua Ma, Yu Kang, and
Saravan Rajmohan. 2024a.

Automated Root Causing of Cloud Incidents using
In-Context Learning with GPT-4. In Companion
Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on the Foundations of
Software Engineering.

Zhang et al. (2024b)

Xuchao Zhang, Tanish
Mittal, Chetan Bansal, Rujia Wang,
Minghua Ma, Zhixin Ren,
Hao Huang, and Saravan Rajmohan.
2024b.

FLASH: A Workflow Automation Agent for Diagnosing
Recurring Incidents.

(2024).

Zhao et al. (2023)

Chenyu Zhao, Minghua Ma,
Zhenyu Zhong, Shenglin Zhang,
Zhiyuan Tan, Xiao Xiong,
LuLu Yu, Jiayi Feng,
Yongqian Sun, Yuzhi Zhang,
et al. 2023.

Robust Multimodal Failure Detection for
Microservice Systems. In Proceedings of the 29th
ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining.

Zheng et al. (2024)

Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin
Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang,
Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang,
Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li,
Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al.
2024.

Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot
arena.

Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS’24) (2024).

Zhou et al. (2023)

Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu,
Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou,
Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar,
Xianyi Cheng, Yonatan Bisk,
Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, et al.
2023.

WebArena: A Realistic Web Environment for Building
Autonomous Agents.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.13854
(2023).

Zhou et al. (2021)

Xiang Zhou, Xin Peng,
Tao Xie, Jun Sun, Chao
Ji, Wenhai Li, and Dan Ding.
2021.

Fault Analysis and Debugging of Microservice
Systems: Industrial Survey, Benchmark System, and Empirical Study.

IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
(2021).

 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs
 for errors. Generated by

 L
 A
 T
 E

 xml

 .

Instructions for reporting errors

We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below:

Click the "Report Issue" (

 ) button, located in the page header.

Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report.

Our team has already identified the following issues. We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all.

Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion, and welcome developer contributions.

 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders,
 member institutions, ,
 and all contributors.

 About
 ·
 Help
 ·
 Contact
 ·
 Subscribe
 ·
 Copyright
 ·
 Privacy
 ·
 Accessibility
 ·
 Operational Status (opens in new tab)

 Major funding support from

