
PAGE 1
Drain: An Online Log Parsing Approach with Fixed
Depth Tree
Pinjia He∗, Jieming Zhu∗, Zibin Zheng†, and Michael R. Lyu∗
∗Computer Science and Engineering Department, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, China
{pjhe, jmzhu, lyu}@cse.cuhk.edu.hk
†Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing (Sun Y at-sen University), Ministry of Education
School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Y at-sen University, China
zhzibin@mail.sysu.edu.cn
Abstract—Logs, which record valuable system runtime infor-
mation, have been widely employed in Web service management
by service providers and users. A typical log analysis based Web
service management procedure is to ﬁrst parse raw log messages
because of their unstructured format; and then apply data mining
models to extract critical system behavior information, which can
assist Web service management. Most of the existing log parsing
methods focus on ofﬂine, batch processing of logs. However, as
the volume of logs increases rapidly, model training of ofﬂine
log parsing methods, which employs all existing logs after log
collection, becomes time consuming. To address this problem,
we propose an online log parsing method, namely Drain, that
can parse logs in a streaming and timely manner . To accelerate
the parsing process, Drain uses a ﬁxed depth parse tree, which
encodes specially designed rules for parsing. We evaluate Drain
on ﬁve real-world log data sets with more than 10 million raw
log messages. The experimental results show that Drain has the
highest accuracy on four data sets, and comparable accuracy
on the remaining one. Besides, Drain obtains 51.85% ∼81.47%
improvement in running time compared with the state-of-the-
art online parser . We also conduct a case study on an anomaly
detection task using Drain in the parsing step, which determines
the effectiveness of Drain in log analysis.
Index Terms—Log parsing; Online algorithm; Log analysis;
Web service management;
I. I NTRODUCTION
The prevalence of cloud computing, which enables on-
demand service delivery, has made Service-oriented Architec-
ture (SOA) a dominant architectural style. Nowadays, more
and more developers leverage existing Web services to build
their own systems because of their rich functionality and
“plug-and-play” property. Although developing Web service
based system is convenient and lightweight, Web service man-
agement is a signiﬁcant challenge for both service providers
and users. Speciﬁcally, service providers (e.g., Amazon EC2
[1]) are expected to provide services with no failures or SLA
(service-level agreement) violations to a large number of users.
Similarly, service users need to effectively and efﬁciently
manage the adopted services, which have been discussed in
many recent works (e.g., Web service monitoring [2]). In this
context, log analysis based service management techniques,
which employ service logs to achieve automatic or semi-
automatic service management, have been widely studied.
Logs are usually the only data resource available that
records service runtime information. In general, a log message
is a line of text printed by logging statements (e.g., printf(),
logging.info()) written by developers. Thus, log analysis tech-
niques, which apply data mining models to get insights of sys-
tem behaviors, are in widespread use for service management.
For service providers, there are studies in anomaly detection
[3], [4], fault diagnosis [5], [6] and performance improvement
[7]. For service users, typical examples include business model
mining [8], [9] and user behavior analysis [ 10], [11].
Most of the data mining models used in these log analysis
techniques require structured input (e.g., an event list or a
matrix). However, raw log messages are usually unstructured,
because developers are allowed to write free-text log messages
in source code. Thus, the ﬁrst step of log analysis is log
parsing, where unstructured log messages are transformed into
structured events. An unstructured log message, as in the
following example, usually contains various forms of system
runtime information: timestamp (records the occurring time
of an event), verbosity level (indicate the severity level of
an event, e.g., INFO), and raw message content (free-text
description of a service operation).
081109 204655 556 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder
: Received block blk_3587508140051953248 of size 67
108864 from /10.251.42.84
Traditionally, log parsing relies heavily on regular expres-
sions [12], which are designed and maintained manually by
developers. However, this manual method is not suitable for
logs generated by modern services for the following three
reasons. First, the volume of logs is increasing rapidly, which
makes the manual method prohibitive. For example, a large-
scale service system can generate 50 GB logs (120 ∼200
million lines) per hour [13]. Second, as open-source platforms
(e.g., Github) and Web service become popular, a system often
consists of components written by hundreds of developers
globally [3]. Thus, people in charge of the regular expressions
may not know the original logging purpose, which makes
manual management even harder. Third, logging statements
in modern systems updates frequently (e.g., hundreds of new
logging statements every month [ 14]). In order to maintain
a correct regular expression set, developers need to check all
logging statements regularly, which is tedious and error-prone.
Log parsing is widely studied to parse the raw log messages
automatically. Most of existing log parsers focus on ofﬂine,
batch processing. For example, Xu et al. [3] design a method
2017 IEEE 24th International Conference on Web Services
978-1-5386-0752-7/17 $31.00 © 2017 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICWS.2017.13
33


PAGE 2
to automatically generate regular expressions based on source
code. However, source code is often inaccessible in practice
(e.g., Web service components). For general log parsing, recent
studies propose data-driven methods [4], [15], which directly
extract log templates from raw log messages. These log parsers
are ofﬂine, and limited by the memory of a single computer.
Besides, they fail to align with the log collecting manner. A
typical log collection system has a log shipper installed on
each node to forward log entries in a streaming manner to a
centralized server that contains a log parser [ 16]. The ofﬂine
log parsers need to employ all logs after log collection for
a certain period (e.g., 1h) for the parser training. In contrast,
an online log parser parses logs in a streaming manner, and it
does not require an ofﬂine training step. Thus, current systems
highly demand online log parsing, which is only studied in
a few preliminary works [ 16], [ 17]. However, we observe
that the parsers proposed in these works are not accurate and
efﬁcient enough, which make them not eligible for log parsing
in modern Web service or Web service based systems.
In this paper, we propose an online log parsing method,
namely Drain, that can accurately and efﬁciently parse raw
log messages in a streaming manner. Drain does not require
source code or any information other than raw log messages.
Drain can automatically extract log templates from raw log
messages and split them into disjoint log groups. It employs
a parse tree with ﬁxed depth to guide the log group search
process, which effectively avoids constructing a very deep and
unbalanced tree. Besides, specially designed parsing rules are
compactly encoded in the parse tree nodes. We evaluate Drain
on ﬁve real-world log data sets with more than 10 million
raw log messages. Drain demonstrates the highest accuracy
on four data sets, and comparable accuracy on the remaining
one. Besides, Drain obtains 51.8%∼81.47% improvement in
running time compared with the state-of-the-art online parser
[16]. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of Drain in log
analysis by tackling a real-world anomaly detection task [3].
In summary, our paper makes the following contributions:
• This paper presents the design of an online log parsing
method (Drain), which encodes specially designed pars-
ing rules in a parse tree with ﬁxed depth.
• Extensive experiments have been conducted on ﬁve real-
world log data sets, which determine the superiority of
Drain in terms of accuracy and efﬁciency.
• The source code of Drain has been publicly released [18],
allowing for easy use by researchers and practitioners for
future study.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II presents the overview of log parsing process. Section III
describes our online log parsing method, Drain. We evaluate
the performance of Drain in Section IV. Related work is
introduced in Section V. Finally, we conclude this paper in
Section VI.
II. O VERVIEW OF LOG PARSING
The goal of log parsing is to transform raw log mes-
sages into structured log messages, as described in Figure 1.
081109 204608 Receiving block blk_3587 src: /10.251.42.84:57069 dest:                     /10.251.42.84:50010 
081109 204655 PacketResponder 0 for block blk_4003 terminating 
081109 204655 Received block blk_3587 of size 67108864 from /10.251.42.84 
 
 
blk_3587 Receiving block * src: * dest: *  
blk_4003 PacketResponder * for block * terminating 
blk_3587 Received block * of size * from * 
Log Parsing 
Fig. 1: Overview of Log Parsing
Speciﬁcally, raw log messages are unstructured data, including
timestamps and raw message contents. The raw log messages
in Figure 1 are simpliﬁed HDFS raw log messages collected
on the Amazon EC2 platform [ 3]. In the parsing process, a
parser distinguishes between the constant part and variable
part of each raw log message. The constant part is tokens
that describe a system operation template (i.e., log event),
such as “Receiving block * src: * dest: *” in Figure 1; while
the variable part is the remaining tokens (e.g, “blk 3587”)
that carry dynamic runtime system information. A typical
structured log message contains a matched log event and ﬁelds
of interest (e.g, the HDFS block ID “blk 3587”). Typical log
parsers [4], [15], [16], [17] regard log parsing as a clustering
problem, where they cluster raw log messages with the same
log event into a log group. The following section introduces
our proposed log parser, which clusters the raw log messages
into different log groups in a streaming manner.
III. M ETHODOLOGY
In this section, we brieﬂy introduce Drain, a ﬁxed depth
tree b ased online log parsi ng method. When a new raw log
message arrives, Drain will preprocess it by simple regular
expressions based on domain knowledge. Then we search a log
group (i.e., leaf node of the tree) by following the specially-
designed rules encoded in the internal nodes of the tree. If a
suitable log group is found, the log message will be matched
with the log event stored in that log group. Otherwise, a new
log group will be created based on the log message. In the
following, we ﬁrst introduce the structure of the ﬁxed depth
tree (i.e., parse tree). Then we explain how Drain parses raw
log messages by searching the nodes of the parse tree.
A. Overall Tree Structure
When a raw log message arrives, an online log parser needs
to search the most suitable log group for it, or create a new log
group. In this process, a simple solution is to compare the raw
log message with log event stored in each log group one by
one. However, this solution is very slow because the number
of log groups increases rapidly in parsing. To accelerate this
process, we design a parse tree with ﬁxed depth to guide the
log group search, which effectively bounds the number of log
groups that a raw log message needs to compare with.
The parse tree is illustrated in Figure 2. The root node is
in the top layer of the parse tree; the bottom layer contains the
leaf nodes; other nodes in the tree are internal nodes. Root
34

PAGE 3
A List of Log Groups 
 . . .  
Length: 4  .  .  .  
Root 
Length: 5 Length: 10 
Send Receive Starting 
Log Event:  Receive from node * 
Log IDs:  [1, 23, 25, 46, 345, …] 
Log Group 
Root Node Internal Node Leaf Node Log Group 
* 
Fig. 2: Structure of Parse Tree in Drain ( depth =3 )
node and internal nodes encode specially-designed rules to
guide the search process. They do not contain any log groups.
Each path in the parse tree ends with a leaf node, which stores
a list of log groups, and we only plot one leaf node here
for simplicity. Each log group has two parts: log event and
log IDs. Log event is the template that best describes the log
messages in this group, which consists of the constant part
of a log message. Log IDs records the IDs of log messages
in this group. One special design of the parse tree is that
the depth of all leaf nodes are the same and are ﬁxed by
a predeﬁned parameter depth. For example, the depth of the
leaf nodes in Figure 2 is ﬁxed to 3. This parameter bounds
the number of nodes Drain visits during the search process,
which greatly improves its efﬁciency. Besides, to avoid tree
branch explosion, we employ a parameter maxChild, which
restricts the maximum number of children of a node. In the
following, for clarity, we deﬁne an n-th layer node as a node
whose depth is n. Besides, unless otherwise stated, we use the
parse tree in Figure 2 as an example in following explanation.
B. Step 1: Preprocess by Domain Knowledge
According to our previous empirical study on existing
log parsing methods [19], preprocessing can improve parsing
accuracy. Thus, before employing the parse tree, we preprocess
the raw log message when it arrives. Speciﬁcally, Drain
allows users to provide simple regular expressions based on
domain knowledge that represent commonly-used variables,
such as IP address and block ID. Then Drain will remove the
tokens matched from the raw log message by these regular
expressions. For example, block IDs in Figure 1 will be
removed by “blk [0-9]+”.
The regular expressions employed in this step are often
very simple, because they are used to match tokens instead
of log messages. Besides, a data set usually requires only a
few such regular expressions. For example, the data sets used
in our evaluation section require at most two such regular
expressions.
C. Step 2: Search by Log Message Length
In this step and step 3, we explain how we traverse the
parse tree according to the encoded rules and ﬁnally ﬁnd a
leaf node.
Drain starts from the root node of the parse tree with the
preprocessed log message. The 1-st layer nodes in the parse
tree represent log groups whose log messages are of different
log message lengths. By log message length, we mean the
number of tokens in a log message. In this step, Drain selects
a path to a 1-st layer node based on the log message length of
the preprocessed log message. For example, for log message
“Receive from node 4”, Drain traverse to the internal node
“Length: 4” in Figure 2. This is based on the assumption
that log messages with the same log event will probably
have the same log message length. Although it is possible
that log messages with the same log event have different log
message lengths, it can be handled by simple postprocessing.
Besides, our experiments in Section IV -B demonstrate the
superiority of Drain in terms of parsing accuracy even without
postprocessing.
D. Step 3: Search by Preceding Tokens
In this step, Drain traverses from a 1-st layer node, which
is searched in step 2, to a leaf node. This step is based on
the assumption that tokens in the beginning positions of a log
message are more likely to be constants. Speciﬁcally, Drain
selects the next internal node by the tokens in the beginning
positions of the log message. For example, for log message
“Receive from node 4”, Drain traverses from 1-st layer node
“Length: 4” to 2-nd layer node “Receive” because the token
in the ﬁrst position of the log message is “Receive”. Then
Drain will traverse to the leaf node linked with internal node
“Receive”, and go to step 4.
The number of internal nodes that Drain traverses in this
step is (depth−2), where depth is the parse tree parameter
restricting the depth of all leaf nodes. Thus, there are(depth−
2) layers that encode the ﬁrst (depth−2) tokens in the log
messages as search rules. In the example above, we use the
parse tree in Figure 2 for simplicity, whose depth is 3, so
we search by only the token in the ﬁrst position. In practice,
Drain can consider more preceding tokens with larger depth
settings. Note that if depth is 2, Drain only considers the ﬁrst
layer used by step 2.
In some cases, a log message may start with a parameter, for
example, “120 bytes received”. These kinds of log messages
can lead to branch explosion in the parse tree because each
parameter (e.g., 120) will be encoded in an internal node.
To avoid branch explosion, we only consider tokens that do
not contain digits in this step. If a token contains digits, it
will match a special internal node “*”. For example, for the
log message above, Drain will traverse to the internal node
“*” instead of “120”. Besides, we also deﬁne a parameter
maxChild, which restricts the maximum number of children
of a node. If a node already has maxChild children, any
non-matched tokens will match the special internal node “*”
among all its children.
35

PAGE 4
E. Step 4: Search by Token Similarity
Before this step, Drain has traversed to a leaf node, which
contains a list of log groups. The log messages in these log
groups comply with the rules encoded in the internal nodes
along the path. For example, the log group in Figure2 has log
event “Receive from node *”, where the log messages contain
4 tokens and start with token “Receive”.
In this step, Drain selects the most suitable log group from
the log group list. We calculate the similaritysimSeq between
the log message and the log event of each log group. simSeq
is deﬁned as following:
simSeq =
∑n
i=1 equ(seq1(i),s e q2(i))
n , (1)
where seq1 and seq2 represent the log message and the log
event respectively;seq(i) is the i-th token of the sequence; n
is the log message length of the sequences; function equ is
deﬁned as following:
equ(t1,t 2)=
{
1 if t1 = t2
0 otherwise (2)
where t1 and t2 are two tokens. After ﬁnding the log group
with the largest simSeq, we compare it with a predeﬁned
similarity threshold st.I f simSeq ≥ st, Drain returns the
group as the most suitable log group. Otherwise, Drain returns
a ﬂag (e.g., None in Python) to indicate no suitable log group.
F . Step 5: Update the Parse Tree
If a suitable log group is returned in step 4, Drain will add
the log ID of the current log message to the log IDs in the
returned log group. Besides, the log event in the returned log
group will be updated. Speciﬁcally, Drain scans the tokens in
the same position of the log message and the log event. If the
two tokens are the same, we do not modify the token in that
token position. Otherwise, we update the token in that token
position by wildcard (i.e., *) in the log event.
If Drain cannot ﬁnd a suitable log group, it creates a new
log group based on the current log message, where log IDs
contains only the ID of the log message and log event is
exactly the log message. Then, Drain will update the parse tree
with the new log group. Intuitively, Drain traverses from the
root node to a leaf node that should contain the new log group,
and adds the missing internal nodes and leaf node accordingly
along the path. For example, assume the current parse tree
is the tree in the left-hand side of Figure 3, and a new log
message “Receive 120 bytes” arrives. Then Drain will update
the parse tree to the right-hand side tree in Figure 3. Note
that the new internal node in the 3-rd layer is encoded as “*”
because the token “120” contains digits.
IV . EV ALUA TION
A. Experimental Settings
1) Log Data Sets: The log data sets used in our evaluation
are summarized in Table I. These ﬁve real-world data sets
range from supercomputer logs (BGL and HPC) to distributed
Root 
Length: 3 
Send 
Log Event:  Send block 44 
Log IDs:  [1] 
Root 
Length: 3 
Receive 
* 
Send 
block block 
Log Event:  Send block 44 
Log IDs:  [1] 
Log Event:  Receive 120 bytes 
Log IDs:  [2] 
Fig. 3: Parse Tree Update Example (depth =4 )
system logs (HDFS and Zookeeper) to standalone software
logs (Proxiﬁer). Companies rarely release their log data to
the public, because it may violates conﬁdential clauses. We
obtained three log data sets from other researchers with their
generous support. Speciﬁcally, BGL is a log data set collected
by Lawrence Livermore National Labs (LLNL) from Blue-
Gene/L supercomputer system [20]. HPC logs are collected
from a high performance cluster, which has 49 nodes with
6,152 cores and 128GB memory per node [ 21]. HDFS is a
log data set collected from a 203-node cluster on Amazon
EC2 platform in [ 3]. We also collect two log data sets for
evaluation. One is collected from Zookeeper installed on a
32-node cluster in our lab. The other are logs of a standalone
software Proxiﬁer.
2) Comparison: To prove the effectiveness of Drain, we
compare its performance with four existing log parsing meth-
ods in terms of accuracy, efﬁciency and effectiveness on
subsequent log mining tasks. Speciﬁcally, two of them are
ofﬂine log parsers, and the other two are online log parsers.
The ideas of these log parsers are brieﬂy introduced as
following:
• LKE [ 4]: This is an ofﬂine log parsing method devel-
oped by Microsoft. It employs hierarchical clustering and
heuristic rules.
• IPLoM [15]: IPLoM conducts a three-step hierarchical
partitioning before template generation in an ofﬂine man-
ner.
• SHISO [17]: In this online parser, a tree with predeﬁned
number of children in each node is used to guide log
group searching.
TABLE I: Summary of Log Data Sets
System Description #Log Messages Log Message Length #Events
BlueGene/L
Supercomputer
High Performance
Cluster
(Los Alamos)
HDFS Hadoop File System 11,175,629 8~29 29
Distributed
System Coordinator
Proxifier Proxy Client 10,108 10~27 8
80
376
HPC 433,490 6~104 105
BGL 10~1024,747,963
Zookeeper 74,380 8~27
36

PAGE 5
• Spell [16]: This method uses longest common sequence to
search log group in an online manner. It accelerates the
searching process by subsequence matching and preﬁx
tree.
3) Evaluation Metric and Experimental Setup: We use F-
measure [22], [ 23], which is a typical evaluation metric for
clustering algorithms, to evaluate the accuracy of log parsing
methods. The deﬁnition of accuracy is as the following.
Accuracy = 2∗P recision∗Recall
P recision+ Recall , (3)
where P recisionand Recall are deﬁned as follows:
P recision= TP
TP + FP , (4)
Recall = TP
TP + FN , (5)
where a true positive (TP ) decision assigns two log messages
with the same log event to the same log group; a false positive
(FP ) decision assigns two log messages with different log
events to the same log group; and a false negative ( FN )
decision assigns two log messages with the same log event
to different log groups. This evaluation metric is also used in
our previous study [19] on existing log parsers.
TABLE II: Parameter Setting of Drain
BGL HPC HDFS Zookeeper Proxifier
depth 3 4 3 3 4
st 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.3
We run all experiments on a Linux server with Intel Xeon
E5-2670v2 CPU and 128GB DDR3 1600 RAM, running 64-
bit Ubuntu 14.04.2 with Linux kernel 3.16.0. We run each
experiment 10 times to avoid bias. For the preprocessing
step of Drain (step 1), we remove obvious parameters in
log messages (i.e., IP addresses in HPC&Zookeeper&HDFS,
core IDs in BGL, block IDs in HDFS and application IDs
in Proxiﬁer). The parameter setting of Drain is shown in
Table II. Besides, we empirically set maxChild to 100 for
all experiments. The number of children of a tree node rarely
exceeds maxChild, because the encoded rules in the parse
tree can already distribute the logs evenly to different paths.
We also re-tune the parameters of other log parsers to optimize
their performance, which is not presented here because of the
space limit. We put them in our released source code [18] for
further reference.
B. Accuracy of Drain
Accuracy demonstrates how well a log parser matches
raw log messages with the correct log events. Accuracy is
important because parsing errors can degrade the performance
of subsequent log mining task. Intuitively, an ofﬂine log
parsing method could obtain higher accuracy compared with
an online one, because an ofﬂine method enjoys all raw log
messages at the beginning of parsing, while an online method
adjusts its parsing model gradually in the parsing process.
TABLE III: Parsing Accuracy of Log Parsing Methods
BGL HPC HDFS Zookeeper Proxifier
LKE 0.67 0.17 0.57 0.78 0.85
IPLoM 0.99 0.65 0.99 0.99 0.85
SHISO 0.87 0.53 0.93 0.68 0.85
Spell 0.98 0.82 0.87 0.99 0.87
Drain 0.99 0.84 0.99 0.99 0.86
Offline Log Parsers
Online Log Parsers
TABLE IV: Running Time (Sec) of Log Parsing Methods
BGL HPC HDFS Zookeeper Proxifier
LKE N/A N/A N/A N/A 8888.49
IPLoM 140.57 12.74 333.03 2.17 0.38
SHISO 10964.55 582.14 6649.23 87.61 8.41
Spell 447.14 47.28 676.45 5.27 0.87
Drain 115.96 8.76 325.7 1.81 0.27
Improvement 74.07% 81.47% 51.85% 65.65% 68.97%
Offline Log Parsers
Online Log Parsers
In this section, we evaluate the accuracy of two ofﬂine and
two online log parsing methods on the data sets described in
Table I. The evaluation results are in Table III. LKE fails to
handle the data sets except Proxiﬁer, because its O(n2) time
complexity makes it too slow for the other data sets. Thus,
for the other four data sets, as with the existing work [ 19],
[24], we evaluate LKE’s accuracy on sample data sets with
2k log messages randomly extracted from the original ones,
while all parsers are evaluated on the 2k sample data sets in
our previous paper [19].
We observe that the proposed online parsing method,
namely Drain, obtains the best accuracy on four data sets,
even compared with the ofﬂine log parsing methods. For
data set Proxiﬁer, Drain also has the second best accuracy
(i.e., 0.86), and it is comparable to Spell, which obtains the
highest accuracy (0.87) on this data set. LKE is not that
good on some data sets, because it employs an aggressive
clustering strategy, which can lead to under-partitioning.
IPLoM obtains high accuracy on most data sets because of its
specially-designed heuristic rules. SHISO uses the similarity
of characters in log messages to search the corresponding
log events. This strategy is too coarse-grained, which causes
inaccuracy. Spell is accurate, but its strategy only based on
longest common subsequence can lead to under-partitioning.
Drain has the overall best accuracy for three reasons. First,
it compounds both the log message length and the ﬁrst few
tokens, which are effective and specially-designed rules, to
construct the ﬁxed depth tree. Second, Drain only uses tokens
that do not contain digits to guide the searching process,
which effectively avoids over-partitioning. Third, the tunable
tree depth and similar threshold st allows users to conduct
ﬁne-grained tuning on different data sets.
C. Efﬁciency of Drain
To evaluate the efﬁciency of Drain, we measure the running
time of it and four existing log parsers on ﬁve real-world log
data sets described in Table I. In Table IV, we demonstrate
the running time of these log parsers. LKE fails to handle
37

PAGE 6
four data sets in reasonable time (i.e., days or weeks), so we
mark the corresponding results as not available.
Considering online parsing methods, SHISO takes too much
time on some data sets (e.g., takes more than 3h on BGL).
This is mainly because SHISO only limits the number of
children for its tree nodes, which can cause very deep parse
tree. Spell obtains better efﬁciency performance, because it
employs a preﬁx tree structure to store all log events found,
which greatly reduces its running time. However, Spell does
not restrict the depth of its preﬁx tree either, and it calculates
the longest common subsequence between two log messages,
which is time consuming. Compared with the existing online
parsing methods, our proposed Drain requires the least running
time on all ﬁve data sets. Speciﬁcally, Drain only needs 2
min to parse 4m BGL log messages and 6 min to parse 10m
HDFS log messages. Drain greatly improves the running time
of existing online parsing methods. The improvements on the
ﬁve real-world data sets are at least 51.85%, and it reduce
81.47% running time on HPC. Drain also outperforms the
existing ofﬂine log parsing methods. It requires less running
time than IPLoM on all ﬁve data sets. Moreover, as an online
log parsing method, Drain is not limited by the memory of a
single computer, which is the bottleneck of most ofﬂine log
parsing methods. For example, IPLoM needs to load all log
messages into computer memory, and it will construct extra
data structures of comparable size in runtime. Thus, although
IPLoM is efﬁcient too, it may fail to handle large-scale log
data. Drain is not limited by the memory of single computer,
because it processes the log messages one by one.
TABLE V: Log Size of Sample Datasets for Efﬁciency Ex-
periments
BGL 400 4k 40k 400k 4m
HPC 600 3k 15k 75k 375k
HDFS 1k 10k 100k 1m 10m
Zookeeper 4k 8k 16k 32k 64k
Proxiﬁer 600 1200 2400 4800 9600
Because log size of modern systems is rapidly increasing, a
log parsing method is expected to handle large-scale log data.
Thus, to simulate the increasing of log size, we also measure
the running time of these log parsers on 25 sampled log data
sets with varying log size (i.e., number of log messages) as
described in TableV. The log messages in these sampled data
sets are randomly extracted from the real-world data sets in
Table I.
The evaluation results are illustrated in Figure 4, which is
in logarithmic scale. In this ﬁgure, we observe that, compared
with other methods, the running time of LKE raises faster as
the log size increases. Because the time complexity of LKE
is O(n2), and the time complexity of other methods is O(n),
while n is the number of log messages. IPLoM is comparable
to Drain, but it requires substantial amounts of memory as
explained above. Online parsing methods (i.e., SHISO, Spell,
Drain) process log message one by one, and they all use a
parse tree to accelerate the log event search process. Drain is
faster than others because of two main reasons. First, Drain
enjoys linear time complexity. The time complexity of Drain
is O(( d + cm)n ), where d is the depth of the parse tree, c
is the number of candidate log groups in the leaf node, m is
the log message length, and n is the number of log messages.
Obviously,d and m are constants. c can also be regarded as
a constant, because the quantity of candidate log groups in
each leaf node is nearly the same, and the number of log
groups is far less than that of log messages. Thus, the time
complexity of Drain is O(n). For SHISO and Spell, the depth
of the parse tree could increase during the parsing process.
Second, we use the specially-designedsimSeq to calculate the
similarity between a log message and a log event candidate.
Its time complexity is O(m1 + m2), while m1 and m2 are
number of tokens in them respectively. In Drain,m1 = m2.B y
comparison, SHISO and Spell calculate the longest common
subsequence between two sequences, whose time complexity
is O(m1m2).
D. Effectiveness of Drain on Real-World Anomaly Detection
Task
In previous sections, we demonstrate the superiority of
Drain in terms of accuracy and efﬁciency. Although high
accuracy is necessary for log parsing methods, it does not
guarantee good performance in the subsequent log mining
task. For example, because log mining could be sensitive to
some critical events, little parsing error may cause an order
of magnitude performance degradation in log mining [19]. To
evaluate the effectiveness of Drain on subsequent log mining
tasks, we conduct a case study on a real-world anomaly
detection task.
We use the HDFS log data set in this case study. Specif-
ically, raw log messages in the HDFS data set [ 3] records
system operations on 575,061 HDFS blocks with a total of
29 log event types. Among these blocks, 16,838 are manually
labeled as anomalies by the original authors. In the original
paper [3], the authors employ Principal Component Analysis
(PCA) to detect these anomalies. Next, we will brieﬂy intro-
duce the anomaly detection workﬂow, including log parsing
and log mining. In log parsing step, all the raw log messages
are parsed into structured log messages. Each structured log
message contains the corresponding HDFS block ID and a
log event. A source code-based log parsing method is used
in the original paper, which is not discussed here because
source code is inaccessible in many cases (e.g., in third
party libraries). In log mining, we ﬁrst use the structured log
messages to generate an event count matrix, where each row
represents an HDFS block; each column represents a log event
type; each cell counts the occurrence of an event on a certain
HDFS block. Then we use TF-IDF [ 25] to preprocess the
event count matrix. Intuitively, TF-IDF gives lower weights to
common event types, which are less likely to contribute to the
anomaly detection process. Finally, the event count matrix is
fed into PCA, which automatically marks the blocks as normal
or abnormal.
In our case study, we evaluate the performance of the
anomaly detection task with different log parsing methods
38

PAGE 7
Fig. 4: Running Time of Log Parsing Methods on Data Sets in Different Size
TABLE VI: Anomaly Detection with Different Log Parsing
Methods (16,838 True Anomalies)
Parsing Reported Detected False
Accuracy Anomaly Anomaly Alarm
IPLoM 0.99 10,998 10,720 (63%) 278 (2.5%)
SHISO 0.93 13,050 11,143 (66%) 1,907 (14.6%)
Spell 0.87 10,949 10,674 (63%) 275 (2.5%)
Drain 0.99 10,998 10,720 (63%) 278 (2.5%)
Ground truth 1.00 11,473 11,195 (66%) 278 (2.4%)
used in the parsing step. Speciﬁcally, we use different log
parsing methods to parse the HDFS raw log messages respec-
tively and, hence, we obtain different sets of structured log
messages. For example, an HDFS block ID could match with
different log events by using different log parsing methods.
Then, we generate different event count matrices, and fed them
into PCA, respectively.
The experimental results are shown in Table VI. In this
table, reported anomalyis the number of anomalies reported
by the PCA model; detected anomaly is the number of true
anomalies reported; false alarm is the number of wrongly
reported ones. We use four existing log parsing methods to
handle the parsing step of this anomaly detection task. We do
not use LKE because it cannot handle this large amount of
data. Ground truth is the experiment using exactly correct
parsed results.
We can observe that Drain obtains nearly the optimal
anomaly detection performance. It detects10, 720 true anoma-
lies with only 278 false alarms. Although 37% of anomalies
have not been detected, it is caused by the log mining
step. Because even when all the log messages are correctly
parsed, the log mining model still leaves 34% of anomalies
at large. Note that although IPLoM demonstrates the same
anomaly detection performance as Drain, their parsing results
are different. We also observe that SHISO, although has a
high parsing accuracy (0.93), does not perform well in this
anomaly detection task. By using SHISO, we would report
1, 907 false alarms, which are 6 times worse than others.
This will largely increase the workload of developers, because
they usually need to manually check the anomalies reported.
Among the online parsing methods, Drain not only has the
highest parsing accuracy as demonstrated in Section IV -B,
but also obtains nearly optimal performance in the anomaly
detection case study.
V. R ELA TED WORK
Log Analysis for Service Management. Logs, which
records system runtime information, are in widespread use for
service management tasks, such as business model mining [8],
[9], user behavior analysis [ 10], [ 11], anomaly detection [3],
[4], [ 26], fault diagnosis [ 5], [ 6], performance improvement
[7], etc. Log parsing is a critical step to enable automated and
effective log analysis [19], because most of these techniques
require structured log messages as input. Thus, we believe our
proposed online parsing method can beneﬁt these techniques
and future studies on log analysis.
Log Parsing.Log parsing has been widely studied in recent
years. Xu et al. [ 3] design a source code based log parser
that achieves high accuracy. However, source code is often
inaccessible in practice (e.g., Web service components). Some
other work proposes data-driven approaches (LKE [4], IPLoM
[15], SHISO [17], Spell [16]), in which data mining techniques
are employed to extract log templates and split raw log mes-
sages into different log groups accordingly. Speciﬁcally, LKE
and IPLoM are ofﬂine log parsers, which are studied in our
previous evaluation study on ofﬂine log parsers [ 19]. SHISO
and Spell are online log parsers, which parse log messages
in a streaming manner, and are not limited by the memory
of a single computer. In this paper, we propose an online log
39

PAGE 8
parser, namely Drain, that greatly outperforms existing online
log parsers in terms of both accuracy and efﬁciency. It even
performs better than the state-of-the-art ofﬂine parsers.
Reliability of Web Service Systems. Many recent studies
focus on enhancing the reliability of Web service systems.
Cubo et al. [ 27] use dynamic software product lines to
reconﬁgure service failures dynamically. Service selection and
recommendation are also widely studied [ 28], [ 29]. These
studies usually employ QoS (quality of service) values to
characterize the reliability of different Web services. Jurca et
al. [ 30] propose a reliable QoS monitoring technique based
on client feedback. Y ao et al. [ 31] develop a model with
accountability for business and QoS compliance. Besides,
Chen et al. [32] propose a performance prediction method for
component-based applications. Our proposed online log parser
is critical for log analysis techniques, which can complement
with these methods in reliability enhancement for Web service
systems. The log analysis methods can also improve the
reliability of many existing service systems [33], [34], [35].
VI. C ONCLUSION
Log parsing is critical for log analysis based Web service
management techniques. This paper proposes an online log
parsing method, namely Drain, that parses raw log messages
in a streaming manner. Drain adopts a ﬁxed depth parse tree
to accelerate the log group search process, which encodes
specially designed rules in its tree nodes. To evaluate the
effectiveness of Drain, we conduct experiments on ﬁve real-
world log data sets. The experimental results show that Drain
greatly outperforms existing online log parsers in terms of
accuracy and efﬁciency. Drain even obtains better performance
than the state-of-the-art ofﬂine log parsers, which are limited
by the memory of a single computer. Besides, we conduct
a case study on a real-world anomaly detection task, which
demonstrates the effectiveness of Drain on log analysis tasks.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The work described in this paper was supported by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Project No.
61332010 and 61472338), the National Basic Research Pro-
gram of China (973 Project No. 2014CB347701), and the
Research Grants Council of the Hong Kong Special Admin-
istrative Region, China (No. CUHK 14234416 of the General
Research Fund).
REFERENCES
[1] Amazon ec2. [Online]. Available: https://aws.amazon.com/tw/ec2/[2] R. Ding, H. Zhou, J. Lou, H. Zhang, Q. Lin, Q. Fu, D. Zhang, and T. Xie,
“Log2: A cost-aware logging mechanism for performance diagnosis,” in
ATC’15: Proc. of the USENIX Annual Technical Conference, 2015.[3] W. Xu, L. Huang, A. Fox, D. Patterson, and M. Jordon, “Detecting large-
scale system problems by mining console logs,” in SOSP’09: Proc. of
the ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 2009.[4] Q. Fu, J. Lou, Y . Wang, and J. Li, “Execution anomaly detection in
distributed systems through unstructured log analysis,” in ICDM’09:
Proc. of International Conference on Data Mining, 2009.[5] W. E. Wong, V . Debroy, R. Golden, X. Xu, and B. Thuraisingham,
“Effective software fault localization using an rbf neural network,”
TR’12: IEEE Transactions on Reliability, 2012.[6] D. Q. Zou, H. Qin, and H. Jin, “Uilog: Improving log-based fault
diagnosis by log analysis,”Journal of Computer Science and Technology,
vol. 31, no. 5, pp. 1038–1052, 2016.
[7] Y . Sun, H. Li, I. G. Councill, J. Huang, W. C. Lee, and C. L. Giles,
“Personalized ranking for digital libraries based on log analysis,” in
WIDM’08: Proc. of the 10th ACM workshop on Web information and
data management, 2008, pp. 133–140.[8] H. J. Cheng and A. Kumar, “Process mining on noisy logs-can log
sanitization help to improve performance?” Decision Support Systems,
vol. 79, pp. 138–149, 2015.[9] H. R. Motahari-Nezhad, R. Saint-Paul, B. Benatallah, and F. Casati,
“Deriving protocol models from imperfect service conversation logs,”
TKDE’08: IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering ,
vol. 20, no. 12, pp. 1683–1698, 2008.[10] X. Y u, M. Li, I. Paik, and K. H. Ryu, “Prediction of web user behavior by
discovering temporal relational rules from web log data,” in DEXA’12:
Proc. of the 23rd International Conference on Database and Expert
Systems Applications, 2012, pp. 31–38.[11] N. Poggi, V . Muthusamy, D. Carrera, and R. Khalaf, “Business process
mining from e-commerce web logs,” in Business Process Management,
2013, pp. 65–80.[12] D. Lang, “Using SEC,” USENIX ;login: Magazine, vol. 38, 2013.[13] H. Mi, H. Wang, Y . Zhou, M. R. Lyu, and H. Cai, “Toward ﬁne-grained,
unsupervised, scalable performance diagnosis for production cloud com-
puting systems,”IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems,
vol. 24, pp. 1245–1255, 2013.[14] W. Xu, “System problem detection by mining console logs,” Ph.D.
dissertation, University of California, Berkeley, 2010.[15] A. Makanju, A. Zincir-Heywood, and E. Milios, “A lightweight algo-
rithm for message type extraction in system application logs,”TKDE’12:
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2012.[16] M. Du and F. Li, “Spell: Streaming parsing of system event logs,” in
ICDM’16 Proc. of the 16th International Conference on Data Mining,
2016.[17] M. Mizutani, “Incremental mining of system log format,” in SCC’13:
Proc. of the 10th International Conference on Services Computing, 2013.[18] Drain source code. [Online]. Available: http://appsrv.cse.cuhk.edu.hk/
∼pjhe/Drain.py[19] P . He, J. Zhu, S. He, J. Li, and M. R. Lyu, “An evaluation study on
log parsing and its use in log mining,” in DSN’16: Proc. of the 46th
Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and
Networks, 2016.[20] A. Oliner and J. Stearley, “What supercomputers say: A study of ﬁve
system logs,” in DSN’07, 2007.[21] L. A. N. S. LLC. Operational data to support and enable computer
science research. [Online]. Available:http://institutes.lanl.gov/data/fdata[22] C. Manning, P . Raghavan, and H. Schutze, Introduction to Information
Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, 2008.[23] Evaluation of clustering. [Online]. Available: http://nlp.stanford.edu/
IR-book/html/htmledition/evaluation-of-clustering-1.html[24] L. Tang, T. Li, and C. Perng, “LogSig: generating system events from
raw textual logs,” in CIKM’11: Proc. of ACM International Conference
on Information and Knowledge Management, 2011.[25] G. Salton and C. Buckley, “Term weighting approaches in automatic
text retrival,” Cornell, Tech. Rep., 1987.[26] W. Zhang, F. Bastani, I. L. Y en, K. Hulin, F. Bastani, and L. Khan, “Real-
time anomaly detection in streams of execution traces,” in HASE’16:
Proc. of the 14th International Symposium on High-Assurance Systems
Engineering, 2012, pp. 32–39.[27] J. Cubo, N. Gamez, E. Pimentel, and L. Fuentes, “Reconﬁguration
of service failures in damasco using dynamic software product lines,”
in SCC’15: Proc. of the 12nd International Conference on Services
Computing, 2015, pp. 114–121.[28] S. Y . Hwang, W. P . Liao, and C. H. Lee, “Web services selection in
support of reliable web service choreography,” inICWS’10: Proc. of the
17th International Conference on Web Services, 2010, pp. 115–122.[29] S. Meng, Z. Zhou, T. Huang, D. Li, S. Wang, F. Fei, W. Wang,
and W. Dou, “A temporal-aware hybrid collaborative recommendation
method for cloud service,” in ICWS’16: Proc. of the 23rd International
Conference on Web Services, 2016, pp. 252–259.[30] R. Jurca, B. Faltings, and W. Binder, “Reliable qos monitoring based
on client feedback,” in WWW’07: Proc. of the 16th International
Conference on World Wide Web, 2007, pp. 1003–1012.[31] J. Y ao, S. Chen, C. Wang, D. Levy, and J. Zic, “Modelling collaborative
services for business and qos compliance,” inICWS’11: Proc. of the 18th
International Conference on Web Services, 2011, pp. 299–306.[32] S. Chen, Y . Liu, I. Gorton, and A. Liu, “Performance prediction
of component-based applications,” JSS’05: Journal of Systems and
Software, vol. 74, no. 1, pp. 35–43, 2005.[33] A. Iwai and M. Aoyama, “Automotive cloud service systems based on
service-oriented architecture and its evaluation,” in CLOUD’11: Proc.
of the 4th International Conference on Cloud Computing, 2011.[34] J. Zhang, B. Iannucci, M. Hennessy, K. Gopal, S. Xiao, S. Kumar,
D. Pfeffer, B. Aljedia, Y . Ren, M. Griss, S. Rosenberg, J. Cao, and
A. Rowe, “Sensor data as a service–a federated platform for mobile
data-centric service development and sharing,” inSCC’13: Proc. of the
10th International Conference on Services Computing, 2013.[35] Y . Duan, G. Fu, N. Zhou, X. Sun, N. C. Narendra, and B. Hu,
“Everything as a service (xaas) on the cloud: origins, current and future
trends,” in CLOUD’15: Proc. of the 8th International Conference on
Cloud Computing, 2015, pp. 621–628.
40